# How I Optimise $1,200,000/Month Google Ads Accounts [Real Tool]

- **Channel:** https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfH599kwjrHT4dLa1OGEeFw
- **Video ID:** Txly1uaJHt8
- **Upload Date:** 2025-12-11
- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Txly1uaJHt8

## Transcript

If you're watching this video, you're probably wanting to know, "How do I optimize my Google Ads account to get more leads and to get more sales?" There are so many things you can do in Google Ads to get better performance. And there is even more things that you can do to destroy the account. Now, this could be across any sort of ad platform, any sort of business as well. But this is a tool that I've built internally here at Marketle Lead called the gap analysis tool. Now, the reason why you want to use this tool is because it helps you specifically identify where the gap is in your business. See, all these tools and checklists online, which are so amazing, I've purchased most of them. Where the gap is with them is they don't actually identify what you need to specifically do. But what you need to specifically do will be based on your business. So, the biggest gap is usually you have the list of optimizations that you can make, but you don't know which ones to apply. That is why you need to do a gap analysis. Now, I've been doing paid advertising for over 10 years now. Spent over $115 million. And after working with hundreds of businesses and spending that much money, I've realize there are a few simple frameworks which I'm releasing here on the marketly channel which will help you get outstanding results for your business and your Google Ads account. So, when you're looking for ways to optimize the Google Ads account, you got to figure out where is the actual gap. Where is the gap in the business in the account and what can I do about it? So this is the first step doing the gap analysis and this is what we're going to go through here. So after spending over $115 million with hundreds of companies, hundreds of accounts and over the last 10 years, these are the main areas you need to focus on to identify the gap. And I've done it in a very specific order because this specific order lets you know from the start to the end where the gap is. So the first thing we're going to look at is the traffic quality. Now, the reason why we start off with traffic quality is because if you do not get the right quality of traffic to your landing page or website, you're never going to get results and sooner or later, you'll just be burning cash. And no matter what optimizations you do on your landing page or on your ads, if you don't get the right quality of traffic, nothing's going to work. It's the same with meta ads. If you run meta ads, you got to make sure you're targeting the right type of audiences with the right type of ads. So, this is where I've built my own internal search term review tool. But, you don't need your own tool like that internally. All you need to do is go into your Google Ads account and look at the data from the last 7, 30, 90 days just to make sure that the traffic is relevant to your business. So then when we go to this drop down here, you can start to decide is the traffic relevant or if it's not relevant. Now, if it's not relevant, that's where the gap's going to lie. Before you can even go through any of these stages here, this is where you need to make the biggest improvement because if you do not have the right quality of traffic coming through to your website, you won't get conversions. Now, what's really important here is you got to figure out what is high quality traffic. Number one, it will be traffic that is actually using keywords or search terms that are your product or service. Now, even with that, you got to make sure that it has a high buying intent, which there's a lot of videos on my channel about that. Now, there might be great keywords in there that get you traffic, but they don't get you results. In this instant here, we're just going for the more common sense. Are these search terms relevant to my business? Yes or no? So in this case we'll say yes cuz this client's working with market lead. Now what I have over here on the right hand side is the data or metrics. Now the traffic quality won't have a metric because that's qualitative which means it's based on quality whilst these are quantitative being they're a number. You can't put a qualitative metric on this because it is up to interpretation and personalized experience. So that's why there isn't any data here. Now the next would be looking at traffic quantity. So, if you're getting quality traffic through to your landing page or your website, are you actually getting enough? And another reason why we're going to be looking at traffic quantity is because this happens with a lot of businesses. They do get the right quality of traffic, but they're just not getting enough to be statistically significant enough to make any changes or ultimately get enough leads. So, if we look at the traffic quantity here over the last 7 days for this client, there's been 1,000 clicks, 14 days, 3,700 over the last 21 days, and then 5,400 over the last month. So, I'd say that's enough traffic. So, the selections I have here would be good volume, uh, low volume due to budget, or low volume due to search impression share. Now, why do I put these three here? good volume. I would say that's usually based on am I getting about a 100 clicks over the last seven days. Could be more, could be less. Now, once again, this is based on a Google Ads search campaign. For shopping and other campaign types, it's different, but this is where we're trying to go after the highest tip of the spear Google Ads traffic. So, with the good volume, I'd say about 100 clicks a week. Some clients, it's less, sometimes it's significantly more. So, you've got to know based on your experience. Now, another limitation we usually see is once again low volume. But there's two reasons why you're getting low volume. Number one is because of budget because you don't have enough budget to actually get that many clicks. And the third one would be which I would need to add in here is that low volume due to just low search. So beyond low search impression share being you're not showing enough maybe because of your bidding. This one would just be there's not enough search in the market. So that's really important. Now, for a lot of businesses, that won't be the case, especially if you're on Google Ads. But if you have a line of business or a product or service in your company that you're wanting to push, this could be it. That no one's problem aware, no one's product aware, and they don't need it or they don't want it. And in those cases, you'd look for something like Meta Ads or other platforms, Google ad shopping, YouTube ads, meta, Instagram, LinkedIn ads, whatever it needs to be. But this would be identifying that, hey, we're just not getting enough people through. But in this case, let's just say good volume because I do know for this client it's going well. Now the next stage we're looking at is the CTR. So we've first gone through the traffic. Is it good quality? Yes or no. Number two, are we getting enough of it through to the website? Now the third one is CTR. Now a lot of people talk about this. A lot of people in the past talked about it. This is really important for things like quality score, engagement, and just making sure that your ads are actually relevant to the market. But the reason why I put CTR in here is it's just a good forward moving indicator just to see are we actually showing for the things we want to show for and are people actually clicking through because we want to make sure people are clicking through especially for highly relevant search terms. So in this drop down here these are my statuses I give to CTR which I've been doing probably for about the last 10 years. Very poor would be anything from 1 to 2% or lower. Obviously, average I'd be saying is 2 to 4%. Great would be 4 to 7%, excellent would be 7 to 10% and then god mode would be higher. Now, different industries have different metrics. There's a lot of people who'd say, "Oh, poor CTR is like under 7%." But it's not true. Especially if you got a big business and you're looking to scale it as well, your CTR will drop depending on the locations you're targeting, the keywords you're targeting, and so many other factors. So this is more on the conservative yet generous side as well. So for this client, we'll be looking over here and we're looking at about 12% over this time for this search campaign. So we'll just put it into god mode. Now the reason why I've also color coded this as well is to identify if there are any gaps. So once we've done this gap analysis at the end, we can actually identify visually where the gap was. So the next part we're going to go into is quality score. Now, I've just released a video on lowering your CPC and quality scores as well. Now, the reason why quality score is important for Google Ads is because if your quality score isn't strong, then ultimately your ads are not going to be showing as much. You won't get as many clicks. Your cost per click will be higher, and that's a big issue as well. So, whilst this isn't a main metric to look at, it's definitely one that does influence it, and it's one to definitely know about as well. So, in here, anything from 0 to three is really red flag. the business is burning. Anything from four to six is probably in that average range. And you'd want to be doing a bit of work on your landing pages, your ads, your keyword selection to get improvements there. And then ultimately, you want to be moving to that 7 to 10 range. 10 is very rare unless it's your brand name, or you've highly optimized these pages or landing pages for years. Anything in the 7 to N range, I think, is the goal to aim for. Probably the 7 to 8 range. So for this client and I'll just go into a tool I've built. Another tool is the quality score review tool. Now what this tool is for us is we'd be selecting the client at the top. We could be selecting their campaign or a quality score range. For example, if I want to see all the quality scores from 1 to three, it will show it to me in a moment beautifully. There's nothing. Anything in the four to six, I have them here. And then anything into that seven to nine range, which is the very good range. and then ultimately what's in the 10ens as well. But I'll remove that now. And why I look at this, it's really important is because I want to see what keywords have the highest conversions when I look down here, the highest clicks and what their quality scores are. Because there's a lot of businesses that get a lot of conversions from certain keywords that have low quality scores. and that is the lowest hanging fruit versus you've got keywords that you should be getting more sales from, more clicks from, and you're like by doing this analysis, you start to realize, oh wait, it's because the quality score is low. It's probably that more than anything else. So, in terms of the gap analysis tool, going back here, we can see for this client that it's pretty much all in the green. And that's what we're doing. We're just doing a bit more of a spot check on this just to ensure that the quality scores are good. Quality scores do range across the account across campaigns. Whilst this is a bit more quantitative because there are numbers, I'd also be using this more as qualitative. Hence why I don't actually have any sort of tool here because averaging it out wouldn't be appropriate. This is more of the human side to have a look at as well. So I'd say for this one, it's good because it's in that 7 to 10 range. Now CPC, this is an interesting one. This one you've got to look really deeply for your business. There's no good KPI of CPC except for what is your cost per lead target or cost per sale target. What is an appropriate conversion rate and by doing that you reverse engineer what an appropriate cost per click would be or ultimately looking at the keyword planner and seeing what's the average cost per click for that specific keyword or those keywords for your business in the industry. So for this we've got a selection which would be a good CPC based on those KPIs. Now, a lot of people will make up what a good CPC is. Some will say $2, some will say $50. It is ridiculous. But once again, my recommendation would be, and I've got an automated version of this that does all this crazy quantum mathematics behind it, is that I would be looking for the cost per click to be based on the conversion rate, reverse engineering it, and the cost per lead. Both being an appropriate conservative cost per lead and a conservative conversion rate. That way you're not gaslighting yourself being like our cost per click should be a dollar for something that should be $10. So for this company it's good because we actually know a few other metrics further down the line that are great. So the choices we have here are good CPC too high for the budget for example that your budget is very limited and this cost per click will just eat away so much of the budget you ultimately won't get enough traffic quantity from. So that's when you'd be looking at it going, "We've got this. The CBC's are too high for the budget. We've got to pull them down. Even if the quality is amazing, we're just not getting enough traffic through to the website." And then the other one is too high for the economics of the cost per lead, which I was just mentioning before that it may be too expensive to get it because just basically the conversion rate, the cost per sale, the cost per lead, it just doesn't make sense. So it's really important to identify that. Now, for this client, their cost per lead target, and this is where we're going to the next stage, is $15. So, actually, for this stage, this cost per click may actually be too high. Now, conversion rate. This is another area where people say, "We've got a 40% conversion rate for our business or a 15% or a 2%." Every business is different because every industry is different, every product line is different, and just economics and how things are run, everything is different. So, it's got to be based on your own benchmarks and things that are not ridiculous based on things that you've sent online. I see so many people talk about high converting landing pages, me included. And that's not the case for all businesses all of the time. We've got landing pages for clients that are converting at 4%. Now, people be like, "That is horrible." But the reality is it's a highly, highly, highly specialized industry where the client value is so high that any lead is outstanding. So you've got to know what a good conversion rate is for your business based on two things. Number one, the industry benchmarks and number two, your internal KPIs. So your internal KPIs would be how many sales do you need? What would be your cost per sale goal? How many leads do you need for those sales? And then realizing if your cost per sale goal is a certain number, divide that by the amount of leads you need, that's your cost per lead target. And then based on your conversion rate or your cost per click, you can either reverse engineer either of them. But with this, the conversion rate super important. You've got to identify it for your business and you can't just be going, "Oh, this is what other people are doing." Because those numbers honestly are made up. They're either high conversion rates for lowquality offers, being at a PDF download, or there are low conversion rate, but very, very, very high ticket, something very specific that people want. So, you've got to do it based on your business, the economics, and understanding the traffic, the funnel, and the offer that you're putting out to market. But in terms of what I do here is I have four selections here and this is on the very conservative side for a website. If it's converting higher than 3% I think that's very good because most websites do not convert higher than that. Under 2% I'd be saying there's a bit of an issue here and there might be a bit of a gap. Now for this client it's pretty crazy. They're at 29% and actually is 29%. They're in a fastmoving industry where people come to the website make a booking and that's it. So, the website's converting very well. Sometimes it converts at 35%, sometimes it jumps down to 21%. Even though that sounds outstanding, the client does freak out when it gets lower. So, you've got to know it for your business. So, 29% I'd say for any business is excellent, but for this one, it's probably on the the good side, not excellent. There's two other ones I've added in here as well is landing page uh good and landing page low. The reason why is because you want to have your own benchmarks for what a landing page is for your business. When is it going well and when it's not going well. I would say a good landing page is over 5%. Because it's operating higher than a website and then under 5% you'd probably questioning why isn't it converting? Because the goal of a landing page is to squeeze it. They used to be called squeeze pages but squeeze everything so people just take action immediately have a direct response from it as well. So for this one, we could be saying that their conversion rate is good. And then we go to the cost per lead. So this is where you'd be looking at your cost per lead data over this time period, which we're seeing for about $18 to $17. But we know their target is $15. So this is actually a bit higher than their cost per lead target. So this is where we start to look at the main metrics, which would be good. If it's under 20% of the KPI, that's excellent. hitting KPI which would be within that under 20% to about 20% plus and then ultimately there's too high which is over 20% of the KPI. Now this is just a template. This does change and you've got to have your own intuition for your own account for your own business. Sometimes you can get cost per leads that people say this all the time. If the quality of the lead is higher I'm happy to pay five times as much but you got to ensure that you're tracking the quality of lead so you're not just paying more for leads and then not knowing the quality as well. But that's what I'd be doing on that side is just looking at are we hitting KPIs or not which for this client I would say we are still hitting KPIs because this is a pretty ridiculous number to hit. So if we look at all of this we can start to understand colorcoded that the actual gap right now is the cost per click. It's too high based on the economics of the business. And this is where we'd go to the next stage. But this is the gap analysis not the optimization. So when we're looking at this now, we know, okay, we need to be focusing now on cost per click. Now, if there was something else in here, like we thought that the traffic was not relevant either, that's when we'd be working on the traffic quality and then also working on the cost per click as well. And if this wasn't good as well, we could start to go, okay, economics not working, the landing page, and the traffic quality. But if in this case it wasn't working, I'd be going fixing this because a lot of times you get better traffic and then you get better conversion rates and then ultimately this would start to balance out or ultimately you realize that the cost per click it doesn't really matter. But for this client we do identify that if the conversion rate is at 29% and we're not hitting those KPIs then reality is it is the cost per click because cost per click times by your conversion rate will be your cost per lead. And that's why you got to know all your numbers in the business. your own benchmarks, your own KPIs, and then reverse engineer it. So then you can actually start to identify where the gap is in for your business. So we do this for every single client at market lead. Every time there's a challenge, I will go through this manually. I have an automated version. But why I love doing this manually is it forces me to go into the accounts on a deeper level and just be more systematic around each pillar. And hopefully after this video, you've noticed why all of these are important, cuz this can really help you identify where the gap is in your account. Now, there are so many things with the conversion rate that it could be the landing page, it could be the traffic, it could be the website, whatever it is, that's when you dive deeper. But if this number was good, then you would leave it or if this number was good, you'd leave it. You just got to find specifically what it is and then you dive deeper because so many people optimize things that are not broken. And that's the biggest risk with advertising accounts. They see checklists or other optimization tools. Let's just do this. But it's not actually fixing the gap. Now, this is just for a Google Ads account. We've got this for Meta Ads, Bing Ads, other channels, and also for our clients businesses as well. So, it moves just beyond the Google ad search. We've got it for performance max. So many ways you can use these types of frameworks to identify where is the specific gap in your business. So it can start on the ad side, the traffic side, the lead side, the sales side, the operation side, wherever it is, but you need to do a gap analysis or you might be focusing on the wrong things, optimizing the wrong things, and you've got one or two things that if you just fix that for the business, everything would work out. So if you need help with your Google Ads account, something like this, but even beyond that with the management and the optimization, reach out to us at Marketle. That's what we do exceptionally well. I've been personally rated one of the top 100 PPC influencers and experts in the world for the last 3 years. That's why I'm sharing this material so you can actually get the best result for your Google Ads account. But I'll leave it there. Remember like, comment, share, subscribe, but most importantly, enjoy.
