# My Claude Code Workflow for 2026

**Date:** 2026-01-02
**Channel:** Ray Amjad
**Duration:** 20 minutes
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sy65ARFI9Bg

## Summary

Leverage AI tools like Gemini 3 Pro for spec creation from screen recordings and ChatGPT for identifying relevant, well-maintained packages to enhance development speed and reliability. Optimize your role as an orchestrator by designing feedback loops for AI agents, monitoring their performance, and continuously improving prompts and documentation to guide them effectively.

## Transcript

Okay, so I'll be showing my AI Agentic coding&nbsp; workflow going into 2026, and hopefully you can&nbsp;&nbsp; learn a few things from this video to apply&nbsp; to your own workflow. And if your workflow&nbsp;&nbsp; does differ significantly from mine, then do&nbsp; leave a comment down below because I'm pretty&nbsp;&nbsp; interested in improving mine and it will help&nbsp; other people as well. Before getting started,&nbsp;&nbsp; this video is sponsored by myself&nbsp; and my Claude Code masterclass. It is the most comprehensive Claude Code&nbsp; class you will find on the internet right now,&nbsp;&nbsp; and there will be a link down below alongside&nbsp; a coupon code because there's a new year's&nbsp;&nbsp; sale going on right now. So you will be able&nbsp; to get it cheaper, and I do update the class&nbsp;&nbsp; regularly with any new features available in&nbsp; Claude Code. Now, first of all, you can save&nbsp;&nbsp; yourself a lot of time when it comes to creating&nbsp; a spec because you can use a screen recording. So if you have a brand new product idea or a&nbsp; feature idea, it's very likely that product or&nbsp;&nbsp; feature already exists in some form or another on&nbsp; a different website or somewhere else. And in that&nbsp;&nbsp; case, you can save yourself a lot of time by going&nbsp; to the other website, doing a screen recording,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then talking as you're making the recording&nbsp; about any ideas that you have features and maybe&nbsp;&nbsp; using a program to draw on the screen as you're&nbsp; like going through the other product. And then&nbsp;&nbsp; you can basically upload that to Gemini 3&nbsp; Pro in Google AI Studio say something like,&nbsp;&nbsp; can you give me a PRD based on this particular&nbsp; product? And then it will give you a rough PRD. And then once you transfer it over to Claude&nbsp; Code, you can basically iterate and improve on it.&nbsp;&nbsp; Some people like using the BMAd standard or like&nbsp; GitHub spec kit, but I personally just like using&nbsp;&nbsp; the ask user question tool. And there's a very&nbsp; good prompt that one of the Anthropic employees&nbsp;&nbsp; has shared previously that you can do to improve&nbsp; on the spec that Gemini 3 Pro has given you. So you can like say read this spec file that&nbsp; Gemini 3 Pro gave you, interview me in detail&nbsp;&nbsp; using the ask user question tool about literally&nbsp; anything. And then you should see a bunch of&nbsp;&nbsp; questions that look kind of like this. So you&nbsp; can see I answered a few questions before and&nbsp;&nbsp; now it's asking me more questions like how should&nbsp; the formatting toolbar be positioned? Press enter,&nbsp;&nbsp; how should the emoji keyboard be? Like add&nbsp; a full complete emoji picker, for example. And now that I have this improved specification&nbsp; through the ask user question tool, I find a&nbsp;&nbsp; problem with many coding agents these days&nbsp; seem to be because of the outdated context&nbsp;&nbsp; window and a tendency to want to write&nbsp; everything from scratch. It just builds&nbsp;&nbsp; out like custom implementation for things&nbsp; in a worse way. So for example, instead of&nbsp;&nbsp; using a what you see is what you get editor&nbsp; library, it just decides to make one itself. And whilst it is aware of many of the popular&nbsp; packages, there may be less popular packages&nbsp;&nbsp; that only have like three or four thousand&nbsp; GitHub stars that solve that particular&nbsp;&nbsp; issue that the agent isn't really aware&nbsp; of and you have to make it aware of that&nbsp;&nbsp; particular package. So what I do is I give the&nbsp; specification over to something like ChatGPT,&nbsp;&nbsp; turn on heavy thinking because it basically&nbsp; allows it to do more searching online,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then say using this particular&nbsp; specification can you search online&nbsp;&nbsp; and find any relevant GitHub packages that&nbsp; may be useful in developing this feature.&nbsp;&nbsp; Search online and find any well-maintained&nbsp; packages that seem to be updated regularly,&nbsp;&nbsp; have reliable communities, and can simplify&nbsp; the development of this particular feature when&nbsp;&nbsp; there are multiple options proposed different&nbsp; ones with their advantages and disadvantages. They should be compatible with Next.js. And then&nbsp; that then leads me to even better specification&nbsp;&nbsp; that uses many libraries that will speed&nbsp; up the development process and make sure&nbsp;&nbsp; that it's working more reliably. And then I&nbsp; have Claude Code breakdown the specification&nbsp;&nbsp; into phases like you can see here and have&nbsp; it check off things as it's being completed. And between each phase, I then test out the&nbsp; application to make sure it works properly,&nbsp;&nbsp; refine this spec before moving on to the next&nbsp; phase. And that basically means that I now&nbsp;&nbsp; have a significantly better product that kind of&nbsp; aligns with my vision of what I should be. I find&nbsp;&nbsp; that the two most useful parts of this process&nbsp; is using Gemini 3 Pro to basically like turn a&nbsp;&nbsp; screen recording into spec and then also using&nbsp; ChatGPT to find your relevant packages online. Now, a lot of this AI tooling and not having&nbsp; to write much code, it made me question like,&nbsp;&nbsp; what is your whole role in the process? And for&nbsp; example, last year I basically made this entire&nbsp;&nbsp; application HyperWhisper without writing any code.&nbsp; Like I probably wrote like two, three lines myself&nbsp;&nbsp; out of the tens of thousands of lines. And I'm&nbsp; almost done with the Windows application as well. There will be a coupon code and sale on&nbsp; right now as well, if you're interested.&nbsp;&nbsp; And basically the way that I see myself&nbsp; in this process is I'm here designing the&nbsp;&nbsp; feedback loop that basically allows the agent&nbsp; to build effectively, fail and learn through&nbsp;&nbsp; identifying bugs, and then make improvements&nbsp; to any internal documentation and prompts&nbsp;&nbsp; that I'm giving the agent, whether that be&nbsp; through skills, slash commands and so forth,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then also improving prompts&nbsp; within claude.md files and rule files. I find that your role as orchestrator&nbsp; should be to actually watch the agent,&nbsp;&nbsp; see what it's doing, look at any reasoning&nbsp; that it may be doing off regularly,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then basically designing feedback loop&nbsp; where it can work effectively inside. And&nbsp;&nbsp; that could be something like using&nbsp; the agent to regularly make updates&nbsp;&nbsp; to its own claude.md file, so it prevents&nbsp; itself from making as many mistakes often. And you may have an idea that you quickly&nbsp; want to play with or test. So you just make&nbsp;&nbsp; a duplicate version of the application, like&nbsp; play around without worrying about having&nbsp;&nbsp; the perfect implementation, and then feel&nbsp; free to throw that away because like code&nbsp;&nbsp; is very throw-away-able these days. And&nbsp; then making sure you're using the right&nbsp;&nbsp; model or agent for that particular job&nbsp; using the right CLI tool, for example. And you still need to make higher level&nbsp; decisions that the agent may not be able&nbsp;&nbsp; to make for you at the very beginning, such&nbsp; as a database you're going to be using,&nbsp;&nbsp; which tools and skills you need in your project,&nbsp; or what you're even passing to the context,&nbsp;&nbsp; whether that's through MCP servers. So for&nbsp; example, if you're implementing like a Stripe&nbsp;&nbsp; refund system, you want to guide the agent&nbsp; to like actually looking up the documentation&nbsp;&nbsp; because whatever Stripe information it's trained&nbsp; on may be outdated. The way that I see myself in&nbsp;&nbsp; the whole process is to just monitor the&nbsp; agent and then consider which ways that&nbsp;&nbsp; it could be improved and what mistakes it's&nbsp; making regularly and what I can do about it. And then also keeping up to date with the&nbsp; latest information such as sub-agents,&nbsp;&nbsp; skills, slash commands and any new features,&nbsp; most of which I have covered in my Claude Code&nbsp;&nbsp; masterclass, I'll link down below. And yeah, that&nbsp; basically just prevents me from falling behind.&nbsp;&nbsp; But you do have to go through a&nbsp; lot of these problems yourself so&nbsp;&nbsp; you can actually appreciate the solution&nbsp; because some of the lessons in the class&nbsp;&nbsp; may not actually make sense if you haven't&nbsp; experienced that particular problem before. As for the kind of models that I find&nbsp; myself using the most going into the&nbsp;&nbsp; year. I use Opus 4.5 the most because I find&nbsp; it to be best at making large scale features,&nbsp;&nbsp; changing a lot of files through refactors,&nbsp; and also just writing clean and focused code. Probably 70, 80% of the time I'm using&nbsp; Opus 4.5 and I use that at the start of&nbsp;&nbsp; every single session. But often I do switch&nbsp; over to Sonnet 4.5 for any very small fixes,&nbsp;&nbsp; UI tweaks, or doing a code review if&nbsp; I'm reviewing someone else's code,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then also writing a nice change log and&nbsp; summary of all the changes that have happened,&nbsp;&nbsp; whether that's for release notes or like&nbsp; product updates or something else. I do&nbsp;&nbsp; find myself using GPT 5.2 more when it comes&nbsp; to architecture and planning related decisions. I find that sometimes when I start&nbsp; building on a project with Opus 4.5,&nbsp;&nbsp; then later on it becomes clear that&nbsp; like the architecture that it chose&nbsp;&nbsp; at the very beginning was not actually a&nbsp; very good idea. So when I know the project&nbsp;&nbsp; is going to be particularly big, then I pass&nbsp; that spec also through GPT 5.2 to help like&nbsp;&nbsp; decide how things should be structured.&nbsp; It's also pretty good at debugging,&nbsp;&nbsp; which I will get onto in a second. And then Gemini&nbsp; 3 Pro for any design and creativity related tasks. I have I used Gemini 3 Flash for design related&nbsp; stuff, and I just did not find it to be like as&nbsp;&nbsp; good. There are a lot of videos already&nbsp; on YouTube about this of how you can use&nbsp;&nbsp; Gemini 3 Pro for design. And since Haiku 4.5 is&nbsp; really fast when it comes to answering questions,&nbsp;&nbsp; I use it for getting quick answers&nbsp; about the code, explaining things to me,&nbsp;&nbsp; like basically teaching me something new and&nbsp; making very fast, precise edits in files that&nbsp;&nbsp; I know the edit should be made in. Now, I do use&nbsp; Opus 4.5 as my primary model for most of the time,&nbsp;&nbsp; but when it gets stuck on a complex problem that&nbsp; it doesn't seem to be making any progress in,&nbsp;&nbsp; going around in circles or just failing&nbsp; completely, then I just switch over to GPT&nbsp;&nbsp; 5.2 via Codex CLI. And I use the extra high&nbsp; reasoning effort for really hard problems,&nbsp;&nbsp; but I mostly stick to high reasoning effort&nbsp; when it just comes to making changes to&nbsp;&nbsp; codebase. And yeah, this is like a general&nbsp; trend that I've seen many people doing when&nbsp;&nbsp; they struggle to have one model fix a problem,&nbsp; they basically just pass it to another model. And because of the way that it was trained and&nbsp; the training data may have and the biases and&nbsp;&nbsp; so forth, it may be able to figure out a solution&nbsp; to that particular problem that the other model&nbsp;&nbsp; failed to do. I have seen some other people doing&nbsp; pretty interesting things online where they, for&nbsp;&nbsp; example, get Gemini 3 because it has a much larger&nbsp; context window. They pass most of their code base&nbsp;&nbsp; into Gemini 3 and get it to write a prompt, which&nbsp; is like very fine and detailed, and then pass it&nbsp;&nbsp; to like Opus 4.5 for the actual implementation.&nbsp; And I'm actually keen to experiment with that&nbsp;&nbsp; approach more this year to see how well it works&nbsp; for me and the problems that I am facing when&nbsp;&nbsp; coding. Now, since the release of Opus 4.5, I have&nbsp; found myself to be using Codex CLI less. Before I&nbsp;&nbsp; used it like 50/50, Claude Code / Codex CLI. Now&nbsp; it's more like 80% Claude Code, 20% Codex CLI. But I do find it to be helpful when it&nbsp; comes to things that require a lot of&nbsp;&nbsp; context. It feels like the way that Codex CLI&nbsp; related models have been trained is that they&nbsp;&nbsp; basically first gather a lot of context for&nbsp; the code base. So it could spend like 10,&nbsp;&nbsp; 15 minutes just gathering files for the&nbsp; entire code base, reading a lot of code,&nbsp;&nbsp; understanding the context,&nbsp; building like a mental map. And then whenever it makes an update,&nbsp; usually the update or like the refactor&nbsp;&nbsp; that it makes is pretty accurate. So&nbsp; personally I find it to be better [at]&nbsp;&nbsp; longer background running tasks. So I can&nbsp; say look at the recent errors from Sentry&nbsp;&nbsp; and then figure out what are causing&nbsp; those Sentry errors in the code base. Basically tasks that I know will end up reading&nbsp; a lot of code require deeper understanding of the&nbsp;&nbsp; code base and basically things that require less&nbsp; context switching. Because when using Claude Code,&nbsp;&nbsp; I actually find that it can have like&nbsp; shorter cycles, like be more actively&nbsp;&nbsp; engaged. It is more chatty as well and it&nbsp; will ask you more questions before getting&nbsp;&nbsp; on with something and you can just interrupt&nbsp; the model more and like get it to make small&nbsp;&nbsp; tweaks and clarifications and then bring it&nbsp; back on track to like the main task at hand. I find that Claude Code does seem to be more&nbsp; interactive in that sense and it has like a&nbsp;&nbsp; different rhythm to it. But ultimately you should&nbsp; try out both and just see which rhythm you like&nbsp;&nbsp; when it comes to your own workflow. I find&nbsp; that Opus 4.5 does have a quicker start time,&nbsp;&nbsp; is more eager to make edits, and can miss some&nbsp; critical context that usually Codex would have&nbsp;&nbsp; figured out because it just read through more&nbsp; files. And this can make the fix of Opus 4.5&nbsp;&nbsp; slightly less effective, especially when the&nbsp; fix is coming from like a more fundamental&nbsp;&nbsp; error that requires like a bigger mental map&nbsp; of the code base from reading more files. I find that Codex does solve those errors more&nbsp; or better that are fundamental to the way that&nbsp;&nbsp; code base has been architected or designed&nbsp; at the beginning than Opus 4.5 is able to do. But of course, if you do have&nbsp; a different experience from me,&nbsp;&nbsp; then do leave a comment down below because&nbsp; I'm pretty interested in that. Now,&nbsp;&nbsp; one thing that I have been doing is having&nbsp; multiple CLI tools running in parallel. So&nbsp;&nbsp; to have like three sessions of Claude Code,&nbsp; for example, or two sessions of Claude Code&nbsp;&nbsp; and two of Codex CLI, basically working&nbsp; on different tasks in different projects. I tried to have it work on the same project,&nbsp;&nbsp; like working on multiple features at the same&nbsp; time in different Git worktrees. But I found&nbsp;&nbsp; like merging those features together into a&nbsp; new branch to be like a bit of a pain. And&nbsp;&nbsp; most of the time I have like a main project&nbsp; that I'm working on or two main projects. And then I have some satellite&nbsp; projects. So for example,&nbsp;&nbsp; I made a small Anki add-on for myself and a&nbsp; couple hundred other users, which is like a&nbsp;&nbsp; fun small satellite project. And then I made&nbsp; a couple of other small projects as well. So basically I have these small pain points&nbsp; that I usually turn into some kind of product&nbsp;&nbsp; or small micro application, which only&nbsp; me and maybe a few people would use. And&nbsp;&nbsp; that just makes my life significantly&nbsp; easier. I know that some people have&nbsp;&nbsp; been doing things like having 10 instances&nbsp; of Claude Code running at the same time. And honestly, I don't know how they do it because&nbsp; like the amount of context shuffling or switching&nbsp;&nbsp; that I have to do between each session of code&nbsp; usually means I can only do four sessions and&nbsp;&nbsp; then after a couple hours I feel pretty tired&nbsp; because of the amount of context switching that&nbsp;&nbsp; I had to do during those four hours. And that also&nbsp; means that I have to be in silence and I can't be&nbsp;&nbsp; playing music or something and just concentrating&nbsp; on the different sessions ahead. So I guess if&nbsp;&nbsp; anyone does have an idea of how you can actually&nbsp; be using 10 sessions in parallel like some&nbsp;&nbsp; people are doing, which I don't actually believe&nbsp; they're doing effectively, then do let me know. Unless most of the sessions that they&nbsp; actually have, they have these like&nbsp;&nbsp; boring tasks chugging along in the background&nbsp; instead. Now, nowadays I basically dictate&nbsp;&nbsp; all my prompts. I very rarely find&nbsp; myself writing out prompts anymore. And I use my own tool for this called&nbsp; HyperWhisper. There is a New Year sale&nbsp;&nbsp; going on right now as well, so you can&nbsp; use a coupon code down below to get access&nbsp;&nbsp; to it. And basically the model that I&nbsp; use the most is Parakeet version two,&nbsp;&nbsp; which is an offline model, which&nbsp; means that it's like totally safe. Your data is not going to the cloud. And then&nbsp; within Claude Code, I would basically just&nbsp;&nbsp; press a shortcut and say, Can you list all the&nbsp; features that I have in this application? Press&nbsp;&nbsp; stop. And you can see usually in under one second,&nbsp; it's actually written out anything that I said. Sometimes dictating for over two minutes, it's&nbsp; written out in under two seconds. So yeah,&nbsp;&nbsp; right now it's on macOS. So if you're&nbsp; interested, there will be a link down below. And there will be a Windows version of the&nbsp; application coming out later this month.&nbsp;&nbsp; So there will be a wait list down below for&nbsp; Windows users who are interested. Now next up&nbsp;&nbsp; with Claude Code is I basically use planning&nbsp; mode in almost every single session at the&nbsp;&nbsp; beginning of the session or whenever&nbsp; I want a decent sized feature changed. And that's because if you're not using planning&nbsp; mode, like it doesn't have a good pattern that's&nbsp;&nbsp; established. So sometimes what would happen&nbsp; is that if you just like give it some kind of&nbsp;&nbsp; prompt and you keep doing this, then you would&nbsp; have like one version of user authentication,&nbsp;&nbsp; one API pattern enabled, and then another one,&nbsp; and then another one. And you'd have this kind&nbsp;&nbsp; of like architectural drift happening within your&nbsp; code base where you have inconsistent patterns,&nbsp;&nbsp; which lead to slower reviews and also like&nbsp; agents that are more confused in the future. But when you enable planning mode, basically&nbsp; what happens is that Claude Code spins up&nbsp;&nbsp; multiple explore sub-agents that search through&nbsp; the code base to find existing patterns that are&nbsp;&nbsp; well established. And then that data is&nbsp; passed on to the planning sub-agent that&nbsp;&nbsp; then uses those existing patterns that&nbsp; have been established to then build upon&nbsp;&nbsp; them and basically prevents this kind&nbsp; of drift from happening in the future. And honestly, this is one of the things that has&nbsp; been a pretty big unlock this year when it comes&nbsp;&nbsp; to coding agents. Previously, people would use&nbsp; like RAG-based indexing to find relevant files in&nbsp;&nbsp; the code base that would be passed onto a coding&nbsp; agent. That would find and identify patterns. But it actually turns out that when Claude Code&nbsp; introduced agentic grep where it greps through&nbsp;&nbsp; the code base to find relevant patterns and has&nbsp; multiple sub-agents doing that to find it through&nbsp;&nbsp; the code base, then this leads to significantly&nbsp; better like context retrieval than any kind of&nbsp;&nbsp; like RAG-based strategy would. There have been&nbsp; interviews where the creators of Claude Code&nbsp;&nbsp; have talked about this as well. And yeah, this is&nbsp; like what makes planning mode a pretty big unlock. Now, Claude Code will spin up explore sub-agents&nbsp; as well when needs be, but if you switch over to&nbsp;&nbsp; planning mode, then you can ensure it actually&nbsp; does. And basically for any task that I know&nbsp;&nbsp; will change more than like 10-15 lines of code,&nbsp; I almost always use planning mode for. And even&nbsp;&nbsp; though it can take longer in some cases, I&nbsp; do find it tends to be more accurate overall,&nbsp;&nbsp; and I actually don't care as much about how&nbsp; long it takes because as I previously said,&nbsp;&nbsp; usually I just switch my focus to a&nbsp; different CLI working on a different project. Now, the start of 2025, I found myself inspecting&nbsp; every single line that a coding agent had written,&nbsp;&nbsp; like doing a line by line check to make sure&nbsp; that it looked good before committing it. But&nbsp;&nbsp; nowadays I don't even check most of the lines.&nbsp; I basically just open up Cursor and I do a quick&nbsp;&nbsp; look at the top right of how many lines have&nbsp; been changed and the files that were changed. And if it looks like the diff is&nbsp; a correct shape, then I just make&nbsp;&nbsp; that commit. Because often I find that when&nbsp; the plan is good and the shape is correct,&nbsp;&nbsp; then the code is almost always correct. But&nbsp; when the shape kind of looks off because it&nbsp;&nbsp; edited files that I did not expect it to&nbsp; edit in a different part of the code base,&nbsp;&nbsp; or it like changed too many lines, then I actually&nbsp; look through the code and then I'm like, okay,&nbsp;&nbsp; well clearly like something was wrong with&nbsp; my prompt or my plan or something else. So yeah, now I just generally look at the&nbsp; shape of the diff and that's been a big&nbsp;&nbsp; change of the last 12 months. So I'm pretty&nbsp; interested in watching this video a year from&nbsp;&nbsp; now to see how much AI coding has changed and&nbsp; whether this is something I would still do. I&nbsp;&nbsp; find myself being more confident when using&nbsp; TRPC or Prisma because they're type safe,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then I can rely on the shapes more instead. And then I also read through the agent's&nbsp; reasoning and I add any things that I have&nbsp;&nbsp; like thoughts about to the claude.md file.&nbsp; So if I think that I should have taken a&nbsp;&nbsp; different approach or like a missed architectural&nbsp; design or a pattern, then I would correct it. And then at the end of the session, I would say,&nbsp; can you update the claude.md file with X, Y,&nbsp;&nbsp; and Z? Or I would get it to make a claude.md&nbsp; file within that particular subfolder. And I do talk about hierarchical claude.md files&nbsp;&nbsp; in my Claude Code Masterclass as well.&nbsp; That talks about that in more detail. Now, one big change in my workflow&nbsp; has been when it comes to using&nbsp;&nbsp; sub-agents. When sub-agents were first&nbsp; introduced about six, seven months ago,&nbsp;&nbsp; I think I made one of the first videos on&nbsp; sub-agents. And I basically talked about&nbsp;&nbsp; assigning different roles to sub-agents because&nbsp; many people were sharing that online on Twitter. And everyone was like, oh, you can have a&nbsp; front end sub-agent and back end sub-agent,&nbsp;&nbsp; like have all these sub-agents. And then&nbsp; assign them different roles and then have&nbsp;&nbsp; them like all run in parallel basically. And&nbsp; I tried doing that for a while but I found&nbsp;&nbsp; that to be pretty ineffective because&nbsp; there were like coordination issues&nbsp;&nbsp; where the contributions that sub-agents&nbsp; did make would not mesh well together. The sub-agents would misinterpret requirements.&nbsp; There'd be other issues when it comes to like&nbsp;&nbsp; combining outputs and stuff like that. And to&nbsp; avoid a lot of this behavior you would require&nbsp;&nbsp; complex specification to know what to give each&nbsp; sub-agent that would lead to more hassle overall. So because of like the coordination issues and&nbsp; the mess, I was like, okay, well, I'm not going&nbsp;&nbsp; to be like assigning different sub-agents&nbsp; to do different edits within the code base&nbsp;&nbsp; within the same code base, in fact. And I found&nbsp; that sub-agents to be significantly better just&nbsp;&nbsp; controlling the context instead. So often when&nbsp; using Claude Code, I would just say, can you spin&nbsp;&nbsp; up an Opus sub-agent, a Haiku sub-agent, Sonnet&nbsp; sub-agent, that uses the Exa MCP server to search&nbsp;&nbsp; online to figure out how this implementation&nbsp; for like Supabase Auth should be made. Spin up like three or four sub-agents in&nbsp; parallel to basically look at the code base,&nbsp;&nbsp; figure out what is causing a particular&nbsp; bug, and consider it from different angles,&nbsp;&nbsp; for example. I'd get another sub-agent to search&nbsp; online, find relevant documentation for me, and&nbsp;&nbsp; return distilled relevant information back to the&nbsp; main session, which will then actually go ahead&nbsp;&nbsp; with the implementation. So most of my sub-agents&nbsp; that I use are research and thinking first. So they're usually researching something&nbsp; online or like looking at the code base,&nbsp;&nbsp; trying to figure out a problem from different&nbsp; angles and benefiting from the isolated context&nbsp;&nbsp; window because they're isolated from the main&nbsp; session except for the system prompt that was&nbsp;&nbsp; passed onto a sub-agent. And yeah, basically after&nbsp; switching to this approach in like September time,&nbsp;&nbsp; I've been using sub-agents pretty&nbsp; much every single day. So yeah,&nbsp;&nbsp; generally I would not make edits with&nbsp; sub-agents, especially not large edits. But there are some times where I do make&nbsp; edits with sub-agents. So for example,&nbsp;&nbsp; I may spot a mistake in one project when&nbsp; it comes to like an implementation. And&nbsp;&nbsp; I know that mistake exists in&nbsp; other projects on my machine. Because they've all been derived from the&nbsp; same template. So then I would spin up&nbsp;&nbsp; multiple sub-agents to go and find those&nbsp; projects and then have one sub-agent per&nbsp;&nbsp; project to actually make that fix to&nbsp; that particular project. And I think&nbsp;&nbsp; that this is fine because it's like a very&nbsp; small, well-defined fix and you don't have&nbsp;&nbsp; multiple sub-agents running within the same&nbsp; project making changes in the same project. So you don't have to worry about&nbsp; meshing issues. But sometimes I do&nbsp;&nbsp; get to parallelize most small edits&nbsp; within one project. So for example,&nbsp;&nbsp; if I decide to add i18n and translations to&nbsp; a project, I could have a lot of hard-coded&nbsp;&nbsp; strings for the entire code base and&nbsp; that could be like 500, 1000 strings. And then I would basically come up with a plan&nbsp; and get different sub-agents to parallelize all of&nbsp;&nbsp; this. So look through the project and make these&nbsp; very small edits where they extract the hard coded&nbsp;&nbsp; strings into i18n files. So basically most of&nbsp; the time I would avoid having multiple sub-agents&nbsp;&nbsp; making large edits within the same project because&nbsp; I know the changes will not mesh well together. And now a final small handy thing that I&nbsp; do when it comes to using Claude Code is&nbsp;&nbsp; I fork the session to help improve my&nbsp; understanding of what Claude Code is&nbsp;&nbsp; actually doing. So when I notice they're&nbsp; doing something kind of crazy or I'm like,&nbsp;&nbsp; oh, that's interesting. I&nbsp; wonder why I did that approach. I usually just do like split pane right in Warp,&nbsp;&nbsp; which is my like terminal of&nbsp; choice. And then I do Claude,&nbsp;&nbsp; continue fork session. And this will load the&nbsp; last session that was happening in Claude Code. So you can see the exact same session is happening&nbsp; here. But it basically duplicated that session.&nbsp;&nbsp; So like if I make edits over here, no edits&nbsp; will be like changed in the original session. It duplicated that session with a brand&nbsp; new session ID. And then I basically ask&nbsp;&nbsp; any question. I'm like, okay, why did&nbsp; you choose that? Why did you go for&nbsp;&nbsp; that approach? And that basically means that&nbsp; the main session can continue uninterrupted. And I'm not adding like random explanations&nbsp; and stuff like that into main session. And I'm&nbsp;&nbsp; basically having all of that happening&nbsp; in a new session. And then sometimes I&nbsp;&nbsp; would get it to search online, find&nbsp; like relevant information for me,&nbsp;&nbsp; draw mermaid diagrams, and basically&nbsp; help me improve my understanding of&nbsp;&nbsp; like what it's doing as a whole, because&nbsp; I just enjoy learning that kind of stuff. And it also means I can switch over to&nbsp; a less powerful model. So I can switch&nbsp;&nbsp; over to Sonnet instead in this forked session.&nbsp; And ask those questions in the forked session. Anyways, if you do want to learn a lot&nbsp; more when it comes to using Claude Code&nbsp;&nbsp; and mastering every single feature of Claude&nbsp; Code, then that's all covered in my Claude&nbsp;&nbsp; Code masterclass. There will be a link down&nbsp; below if you're interested with a new year's&nbsp;&nbsp; sale coupon code. It is the most comprehensive&nbsp; class on Claude Code on the entire internet. You can search online and check. And if you're&nbsp; interested in my speech to text application that I&nbsp;&nbsp; have, that will also be linked down below. I also&nbsp; did start a brand new newsletter as well where I&nbsp;&nbsp; share my vibe coding techniques, my thoughts&nbsp; on any new models that have been released,&nbsp;&nbsp; any papers or research that I came&nbsp; across that was pretty interesting. If you're interested, there will be a&nbsp; link down below to check it out as well.
