# The Future of SaaS Is Already Here—and It’s Called EliseAI.

- **Channel:** https://www.youtube.com/@GetTheLeverage
- **Video ID:** MV1IsQEDkNM
- **Upload Date:** 20251021
- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MV1IsQEDkNM

## Transcript

So, you're two years in, it's just the two of you, and you just closed two of the largest property management companies in the country. How did that feel? &gt;&gt; I don't think I felt anything. &gt;&gt; At the beginning, we actually weren't very visionary. We were focused on what is the first bottleneck. You were just right back into it. &gt;&gt; Right. Okay. Well, welcome everyone. Today we're joined by Minisong who's the co-founder and CEO of Elise AI which was founded in 2017 which is unusual for an AI company to be founded more than you know 4 months ago. But uh the company is building agentic conversational AI for housing operators and health care systems which are two of my least favorite markets to ever interact with. So it's bold of them to go after both at the same time. Um, most recently, uh, if you've seen them in the headlines, they raised $250 million in, uh, series E that was led by Andre Horwitz in August of this year at a reported $2.2 billion valuation. Uh, so, uh, welcome. How's spending all that money going? &gt;&gt; Well, we're trying not to spend it all in one place, but it's been really great. We've had a lot of a lot of growth of our team. um we're investing in a lot of different areas that uh we couldn't before and um it's been really great. &gt;&gt; So, you know, I mentioned in the intro, you founded this in 2017. I'd love to hear a little bit of that founding story and and where this company came from uh and kind of walk us through the journey up to today. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, I started this with my co-founder Tony. He's the CTO and leads all of product and and engineering, but we actually both come from software engineering backgrounds. We we actually met in college when we were both studying computer science together. Uh I studied at MIT, he studied at University of Cambridge in the UK, but um I actually did a year out there and met him basically the first day. So uh great great uh trip to find a co-founder. Um and yeah, after college we we decided we wanted to build something uh build a company and uh unfortunately we didn't have a we didn't have a lot of good ideas. Um, so, uh, we ended up starting a different company before this, before a lease, and it was a, it was a social media startup. Um, but, you know, as kids, as kids do, that's what they know. And, um, and I think we just quickly realized doing that that we didn't love the impact that we were making. And essentially, we were um, just helping people watch more ads and didn't feel good about working 100hour weeks to to do that. So that sort of led to the framework. Uh it was really the the lessons learned out of that that led to how did we want to think about a company that we we wanted to start and we want to dedicate our lives to. So um really that that that made us um really think about building technology that genuinely improves pe people's lives. And we really thought about uh when we were thinking about that, we really framed it as we wanted to build technology for industries that serve a fundamental human need. So while you said housing and healthcare are two of your least favorite industries, that I think that's that's perfect because they're they're incredibly important and that just means there's a lot of room to to make them uh to make them a lot better. And and everyone needs those things. Everyone needs a place to live. Everyone needs access to health care. And I think AI had um technology just has a lot of air room to make these services better and increase the capacity for for professionals to in those industries to serve more people. So that's kind of how we got started in the housing industry and that's how we decided on an expansion to healthcare many years later. But um the actual beginning of of a lease was uh was started when we um we we actually didn't know anything about the industry. So instead of so sort of going in and as engineers do starting to build a product uh for customers you know nothing about um I took a job working at a real estate firm in New York City and that was really where I got a lot of exposure. So I um I was a a front desk admin so I met a bunch of people I greeted everyone uh and um I learned everything about what we built here at the beginning from that role and from all the people that were around me. How long were you uh at the admin desk? &gt;&gt; I was only there for about 3 months actually. &gt;&gt; Um but I I I think we wouldn't have ever built this company without that opportunity. &gt;&gt; And so that initial product it was basically &gt;&gt; uh to help prospective tenants and landlords communicate more quickly or existing something like that. Correct. &gt;&gt; Yeah, that's right. So today what we build is uh essentially we build AI agents that automate manual workflows but the it started as a conversational AI that picked up the phone and answered emails and text messages um and answered inquiries from renters who were looking to rent an apartment. So we we got kind of slotted into the leasing process as a way to handle the high volume of inquiries that were coming in, answering questions, scheduling appointments. Um, but that's sort of expanded as we've grown the company to a lot more use cases and a lot more automation. I &gt;&gt; I want to get to the agent stuff here in a minute because I think that's interesting. But do I want to go what was the tech stack in the beginning because this is before large language models? I I think the attention is all you need paper was was that 2016 2018 something like that 2017. So it was it was still too early for all that. So what what were you building that was AI back then? &gt;&gt; Yeah, that's yeah. Yeah. Attention is all you need came out uh June 2017 and we were incorporated in January 2017. So you can see how lucky this timing was. Um it sort of replaced all the RNN's and everything that people were using before. Um but at the beginning we were sort of selling and building and educating the market. So it came at perfect time for us and as the you know the transformer a lot of people were building early transformer models like BERT we got to take advantage of a lot of that technology. So the original models were um were sort of built on BERT and and similar um architectures so that it would take in a message from in um so we actually didn't have voice at this point but it would take in like an email or text message and we would use sort of uh classification models to &gt;&gt; do natural language understanding. So we would understand what the renter was asking for and then we would actually generate all the replies using rules-based uh frameworks. So it was uh it was like generate a sentence and then generate the next sentence and put them in this order and it was very you know variables and um so it was uh it was a little it was complicated much much more complicated than it is with generative AI but um but it worked and people actually renters actually thought they were speaking with a human even you know if you make it fine grain enough then um then it actually was a commercially viable product. we wouldn't have probably been able to build uh what we what we build today just with that those old mechanisms alone. But it worked decently well. We were able to bring a product to market. We were on those on those old models. We were serving hundreds of thousands of apartments across the US and um with some of the largest housing providers in the country. But um it changed a lot as as large language models came out um as generative AI came out. &gt;&gt; So 2017 the Transformers comes out, you're doing the BERT models. What is uh what does the go to market go like especially since the both of you are technical backgrounds and uh you sell mostly to larger apartment owners correct? It's most more of the large scale property owners is who your target market is. &gt;&gt; That's where we started. So we work with most of the largest housing providers in the country but um we've actually pushed pretty far down market because our goal is how do we serve the entire market and that could be somebody you know maybe you own a few properties that you use as passive income or you know a financial instrument for you to invest in. We want to serve you and actually I think uh there's even a greater need for for people like that um versus just large property management companies but but that's where we started. &gt;&gt; Like what does it actually like look like? Is that you? Are you hiring a sales team at this point when you're starting to land these enterprise deals or is it uh you taking flights all around the country or how are you actually doing this? Because it's it feels deeply unlikely that you should be successful, right? Like it it doesn't seem like it would work but it obviously did. So I'm curious like those early days, how did what was the pitch? How did it work? &gt;&gt; Yeah, early days were founder le sales for sure. &gt;&gt; Um you know I think it was &gt;&gt; it was not easy. Real estate is not the fastest tech adopting industry in the world. Um, and so you really had to think about how are you going to make this really advanced technology land with a non-technical audience. Um, and I think you actually had to be kind of technical to bridge that gap. Um, but yeah, eventually we hired a sales team. Today we have a we do a lot of direct sales. I still fly around the country every week at least at least one city a week. Um, so that never really stopped. But um but yeah, it's gotten a lot more a lot of people obviously understand AI a lot better now. &gt;&gt; Um but yeah, it was uh it was definitely hard at the beginning. I mean, AI wasn't really in any industry. We were one of the first companies to deploy it for real world applications. I think it was still sort of uh people, you know, people didn't really believe that it could solve problems. you know, you hear a lot of things um you hear less of them now, but thing but things like humans want to buy from humans uh or you know, I I I would never put a you know, a robot in in in this process, but um it's I think of it as a lot like a lot like the the transformation that banks went through, right? Um so early when I'm sure when people were doing go to market for you know ATMs, uh that was not going to be easy, right? It's like are people going to trust a machine to with their money? Um, but I think now they trust ATMs more than they trust a bank teller probably. Uh, and so, you know, of course it's expensive to install and to maintain. Um, so I think that's sort of the same the same uh curve that that AI has is going to go through or has gone through in in most industries. &gt;&gt; Are you selling to the property management companies or to the actual real estate owners? Uh we do both. So um sometimes those are the same uh person. Someone owns it and they manage it themselves. Um especially down market that's that's normally what happens. But um but otherwise we can sell to to either type of customer. I part of this very specific line of questions is uh back before uh I decided I wanted to type for a living. I worked at uh Stockwell, which was an AI vending machine company where we were selling to your very like the exact same clients that you guys sell to of these big property owners. We'd have them install these AI vending machines in their lobbies and it was go to market. That was just the hardest part. But I think with your guys product, their incentive is, hey, we get too many inquiries. We can't filter through them enough. It's too time consuming. You know, uh, this will help us improve our margin margin and respond to more leads. So, it's, you know, they buy you and it's a direct impact somewhere in their sales funnels. Is that right? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, that's right. How was a How did you end up selling those to &gt;&gt; Oh, we ended up selling the company for parts. Uh no, we um it we ended up uh usually it was like a direct upfront incentive. You know, install these machines, we'll give you, you know, x amount of dollars. And then we knew what our payback periods were. &gt;&gt; Um so it it ended up working. We scaled it to about four cities. Um and then uh for a variety of reasons, the company wasn't able to work out, but it was it was uh it was fun. It was before AI was popular. So I, you know, we didn't quite get to the point where you got where like, oh, AI is this tailwind where the market works. For us, it was just always people just never believed in the vision. Um, they were kind of like little Amazon Go stores people could put in their lobbies basically. &gt;&gt; Really interesting. Yeah. Yeah. It's hard uh it's a hard industry to sell to. They don't spend a lot of money on technology. They're not buying it regularly. And so it's those are each of those things are new processes. It's not like selling to, you know, enterprise SAS companies. &gt;&gt; Well, well, no. And I think that's a common misconception is for these type of customers. The margin is actually pretty thin. Like they run pretty lean shops. Like they're not just Donald Duck diving into bathtubs full of money, you know? It's actually a hard business to be in. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. It's funny. In our industry, a lot of companies sort of follow that same trajectory where, you know, they get a little bit of traction, but then they they can't sort of get the escape velocity. Um, and our c customers are always kind of shocked that they're like, why do no startups make it? Well, because you they don't they don't actually want to pay for any until it's validated because of those thin margins, right? So, you have to offer something for free for a really long time. And then it of course that's very hard for especially a startup that hasn't had a lot of funding to to actually get past the initial phases because you can only offer so much for free up front, right? You like you were offering those heavy incentives up front. So, yeah, it's an interesting it's an interesting dynamic to sell to a low margin business, a low mar low margin industry. What was the uh the point in that you have that 2017 founding. What was the point where you really felt product market fit for the first time when it started to the demand started a little bit easier? You started to get that pull. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um I think we knew we had product market fit in terms of the product worked and solved a big problem when we launched our very first customer. So we launched one of the largest property management companies in New York City cuz that's where we are. So that's where we were selling to and we launched on five buildings to start and I think they had 25 buildings at the time. Um and 3 weeks after launching they said get this on all of our properties as quickly as you can. So that's when we felt product market fit when people talk about oh you just know you have it. It was it was going faster than we can expect. Um I'd say from a sales standpoint where we were think we were realizing this could be a um you know this could actually work. We could sell. we could make money from this business was probably when we were selling to the largest uh kind of we were starting to sell to the largest enterprise property management companies. So, um Avalon Bay Equity Residential were I two of the the largest housing providers in the country and they signed up with us in 20 uh end of 2018 early 2019 and so this was a couple years after we got started. It was just me and my co-founder at the time actually. So they took a big risk, but they took a big risk because there it was a real problem that they had to solve. &gt;&gt; So you're two years in, it's just the two of you, and you just closed two of the largest property management companies in the country. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; I mean, did you pop like I You should be cheering. I I like I want to like, you know, &gt;&gt; No time to cheer. &gt;&gt; No time to cheer. Okay. You were just right back into it. Um &gt;&gt; then then think imagine that now you have you have hundreds of thousands of apartments and you've only really ever supported a couple thousand, &gt;&gt; right? So yeah, no time. &gt;&gt; Had you raised capital at this point? How much had you raised? &gt;&gt; No, we had raised zero dollars. Um we started raising money because we signed them on and we had to figure out how we would fulfill these contracts. And so we hired our first employee um who we didn't pay we couldn't pay for 6 months. Um but he helped actually with with myself and my co-founder helped with raising funding. Um Avalon Bay Equity Residential, our first customer from New York, invested as well. Um because they wanted to, you know, they wanted to make sure we had we could support uh their their portfolios. &gt;&gt; Was the pricing back then was it just pure SAS? How was there like, you know, right now outcomebased pricing is all the rage? Was it just normal licensing or seating or per apartment? &gt;&gt; Yep. Per apartment. Um, so yeah, it's normal SAS. Uh, which is the same business models actually we business model we use today. &gt;&gt; 2019. So you really start you have these big deals, they're coming in, you raise some little bit of capital and the machine starts to turn. Um, I I imagine that must have been that felt surreal, right? like after just two years of the two of you just grinding uh that it finally the whole thing started to come together. How did that feel? &gt;&gt; I don't think I felt anything. I think we were just I don't get those I don't know if if other startups have those those points, but I mean obviously it was better than the alternative of running out of money and dying, but um I mean it was it was hard. I mean everything when you sign on these big deals and you have these opportunities, it's it's hard to deploy. It's hard to deploy at scale. We had to step up the level of technology we were providing. Um these were big public companies. There was very little room for error and they had to go perfectly because this was our one shot, right? So I think we were more focused on that. But um but yeah, I think it's uh the momentum that it generated was was amazing and put us on the map and um yeah, I mean they did most of the marketing for us. They did most of the sales for us. We we we didn't do it ourselves. &gt;&gt; Gotcha. Um, so that takes you to 2019. So the next couple of years you're I you're just selling. You're building out the company, you're building out the technology, you're kind of doing the normal blocking and tackling of a SAS company as they expand into their market. One thing uh that's I I hate industry language just to use it. Typically you'll see an AI wedge where they come into a market. I have we we can sell this AI solution. That's a very specific part of your workflow and we're going to expand to start doing more and more uh stuff for you. When was that for you? So you have this conversational product. When do you start offering more workflow automations around it? &gt;&gt; Yeah, when customers are begging you for it. So I think what happened in our space was uh we had this AI leasing product but then customers were saying hey I have all these other workflows. Can't you it's similar to this can't you just do this? And um and so you we wanted to deliver new products. Actually the problem that we had was we we had built the first versions of the system so quickly. Um we had so much technical debt cuz it was me and my co-founder while we were you know building the thing out at the same time selling maintaining customers success and all that stuff. But um we were starting this is you know 2021 we were starting to hit the limits. Um and we couldn't build a new product on the existing architecture. So uh plus all these you know new models were coming out. GPT3 came out in 2020. Um, you started seeing these like, you know, fshot learning, zero shot learning was was performing really well. And so we wanted to make sure we could adapt and that we could build new products. And um, and so we actually we actually decided in 2021 to rebuild our entire architecture. Um, and that was the most traumatic period of our company's history. I think that that always sounds that sounds like a terrible idea, right? Um, I I think we wouldn't we wouldn't be here today if we hadn't made that investment, but most companies that do that try to do that fail. Um, but it was it was a year-long project and um after we launched the sort of our the V2 of our system um we were able to speed up our product velocity um many times over. So we started shipping products like like crazy actually and then we delivered our started delivering our resident suite of products. So handling our AI agents that handle everything sort of post someone moving in. So maintenance requests and um helping people with payments, helping people with their lease renewals. And so we started having this sort of full cycle AI that would be someone's assistant from the point of them being interested in a building to to doing um you know to helping them all the way until they move out. So yeah, I think this was how this just honestly customers asking for for new stuff um led us to do these things. Although of course they're asking for faster horses and we have to deliver something that's AIdriven and actually automates the whole thing. But um we have to translate all that to to to the the vision that we have. But um I didn't think I don't think we actually started out thinking we were going to be building this massive this this massive tech stack. I think at the beginning we actually weren't very visionary. We were focused on what is the first bottleneck. I think we're both engineers. I think that's how we think like okay in a system you want to improve it. you fix the bottleneck and then what's the next bottleneck and what's the next bottleneck and then over time that sort of grew and the vision started to form that hey if you extrapolate and you fix all of these bottlenecks you have a building that's run in a way that's fully automated or what we call today an autonomous building and so that's been that's really what formed the vision &gt;&gt; with that uh V2 that you you said it was 2021 was that a lot of we have to fix our backend there's just so much technical debt here or was it, hey, we need to flip our a AI technology into using GPTs or um what was it? It was a little bit of both. &gt;&gt; Absolutely both. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. What was the moment where do you remember when you're like, "Oh, wait. I I actually think transformer models are it like I actually think we're going to have to do this." Do you remember what like when that occurred to you? &gt;&gt; Um well, we knew transformer models were performing much better um than anything previously. That was I mean we knew that in 2017. Um, we actually had a friend, a classmate of ours that worked with a a professor that was working on this. Um, so he clued us in early. That's how we we kind of got we kind of knew it was it was changing quickly. Um, how we knew generative AI specifically was getting better was really I think GPT3, which was uh I think mid 2020. Um, it wasn't really commercially viable. We tried to use it um but uh but it wasn't it wasn't great. GPT 3.5 was better. Um, and then four was much much better than GPT3.5. Um, so we kind of knew we needed to do stuff. We needed to to get ready for it, but it wasn't something that we could really use in a setting that was, you know, so important as, you know, housing is very expensive. So, if you start losing those contracts for our customers because you have a bad experience, then you're not going to be around for very long. &gt;&gt; Uh, help me understand. I mean, it's not like these problems weren't being solved before. And what what is the relationship to more traditional property management software? Like, how were the customers solving this before this was going on? &gt;&gt; Uh people, they just had loads and loads of people doing really tedious tasks on site, answering the same email 50 times a day. &gt;&gt; Here's how much a onebedroom costs. Here's our pet policy. I'll schedule you an appointment, right, manually. Um they they do that they did that in healthcare as well. Same thing. Um now it can all be a lot of that can be automated. &gt;&gt; Gotcha. Um, now I think at this point we're we're coming to where I think is the most interesting like non-intuitive jump in your journey for me where you you've sold, you're expanding, you know, it works, you you kind of have it figured out, you're on this new tech stack, and then you say, "Let me go after one of the most notoriously difficult markets in healthcare." Um maybe talk I I'd love to feel like the very first inkling maybe it was you or your co-founder's head of like oh actually we need to go add in another market into our mix. &gt;&gt; It was actually during the system rebuild when we were sort of we were designing that new system. M &gt;&gt; we want we were trying first to build new products for our housing customers but in the process it was like oh this is kind of becoming abstracted enough where it's sort of conversation agnostic or industry agnostic. We're like, okay, well, maybe we could apply this to other industries and expand our mission and um you know, we actually did a big search of and did a bunch of research about a bunch of different industries, but I think we knew from day one, even before we started doing that, healthcare just we were just going to go into healthcare. It was good validation because we wanted to make sure could the technology were building, we weren't building just an entirely new company, right? We still needed to build a an a conversational AI or aentic AI uh product because that's to what we knew how to do, but we needed to make sure that our product was able to solve the problems in the new industry that we were going into. So, it was validation of that really that that came out of that research. Um, but it was something that also came up when we were building all of the employees, you know, everyone goes to a doctor once in a while. Um and they were like we could help this process and so we sort of felt I think if you if you can do something you sort of have the responsibility to do it if you if you think you can. &gt;&gt; The key contrast I think with healthcare is the you know there is this big system of record there is on you know there Epic is this huge gorilla in the space there there's a lot of software and it doesn't work particularly well in healthcare but there is a lot of it already. And so do you find yourself having to start once again with this very specific hey you know in the for the housing it was leasing is there a similarly specific workflow that you're starting with in healthcare and expanding from there or is it are you coming in with a full solution? &gt;&gt; No we started specifically with actually very similar to our leasing product. Uh we're handling scheduling appointments for for physicians. Um so integrates with their phone system. It answers the phone calls. it qualifies and it schedules appointments. Um, so it's actually very similar to the leasing product where it pic it answered inquiries, qualified and scheduled tours. Uh, so yeah, we did start there and then are expanding the product suite in healthcare. &gt;&gt; How did the from a company perspective, how did you do this? Like did you form a skunk works team that did this? Did you uh hire a president or how like how did you actually do this? Yeah. &gt;&gt; How'd you pull this off so far? Yeah, it's a yeah, we we we thought about it and um we wanted to build it. We wanted to be intentional about how we structured it so it wouldn't distract because we still had a huge road road map on the housing side. So, we structured it as a pretty sort of independent part of our company. So, there were engineers that obviously built the platform and we wanted to take advantage as much as possible of our existing platform. Um but then sort of the go to market teams, the operations teams are um are completely different. So it sort of acts as a startup like an earlier stage startup within a startup and that's what allowed us to keep tackling both. &gt;&gt; Gotcha. Did you end up trying to bring in a senior leader for that division or are you doing it yourself? &gt;&gt; Um yeah we we're doing it uh now we're bringing in somebody but it was sort of us getting it off the ground taking what we knew about our technology and the way we went to market in housing um with this new you know this type of tech. Uh but then yeah, the team's formed and um yeah, we're we're bringing in a leadership soon. So that's exciting. &gt;&gt; Cool. What was the feedback from your board at this point? You know, were were cuz you said this was 2021, so it there was still AI was just it was there. It wasn't quite, you know, it's nothing like it is today. But um were they supportive of this expansion or were they nervous about it? How how did that go over? &gt;&gt; Both. But &gt;&gt; but so are we. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Um look, I think we we tried to do it in a way that would mitigate risk, right? Let's try something. Let's see what it Let's put it out there. We weren't spending tons of money on it until there was traction and whatnot. Um I think that money doesn't, you know, throwing a ton of money at something doesn't really help, especially when you're pre-product market fit, right? It just sort of Yeah, it just sort of wastes is very wasteful. So um I think as long as you sort of execute it correctly, everyone I mean everyone was supportive of of the plan that we had. &gt;&gt; What is the the balance of the company today? How much you know what percentage of staff is on um housing versus healthcare? &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's a good question. I mean it's it's uh it's more like you can call it a series A company maybe. Um it it the benefit of being uh having a bigger company as well is that they have a ton of resources that are available to them that we didn't have right I mean even the basic things of starting a company like how do you do payroll and how do you you know how do you get office space like that's just stuff that they don't have to the silly stuff that has nothing to do with building your product right they don't have to take worry about that stuff but um it's a I mean yeah it's a it's it's like an early stage earlier stage company versus the later stage company that that is the housing side. Um but I think they they've gone a lot faster than we did originally because of a bunch of uh a bunch of benefits I mentioned. &gt;&gt; So that takes us to today where I I want to talk about housing for the rest of the conversation because I think this is where we're right on the edge of what is possible um with your autonomous buildings. um maybe in as plain non-jargony as possible, walk me through, you know, what the what the AI product is today on the housing side. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, today we um nonjargony, you threw me off there. I mean, today what it what it's doing is it's automating the administrative workflows that a lot of people at a property do. So you can think a leasing agent. Um they take in inquiries from people looking to um rent an apartment. Our AI is now sort of intercepting those and answering emails, text messages, however you communicate, right? You call or you walk in. Um you you have a way to interact with that building through our AI versus having to speak with a human. Um, and we get you all the way from uh when you're inquiring to when you want to apply to that apartment. So, our our products can help you with the application process um until when you move in and then we're helping you with all the things that that uh are needed when you're a resident. though. Um, really you can think of it as if you move into a property, you can you can text with our AI. You know, probably similar you've experienced at at hotels now, right? It kind of it pings you and asks if you need anything. Our AI does something similar, but you can but it can handle much more complex inquiries that happen when you're actually living when it's your home, not just you're visiting um, you know, a hotel and you don't really care. there are sort of much realer workflows that happen at an apartment building. Um, so it's handling all those administrative workflows and um it's helping free up all the on-site staff so that they can do things that really matter um versus answering the same messages over and over again or triaging calls and entering data. So basically all the conversational data whether it was spoken or typed or whatever that was coming into a building you now automate that all the stuff that was going between a building and its residence you now have an AI and then on the way out as well. &gt;&gt; Exactly. &gt;&gt; Are you building uh maybe it's a different term in housing but the equivalent of a CRM where are you like are you helping them manage their properties and are you doing the payment workflows? Are you are you that deep into the tech stack yet? &gt;&gt; We do have a CRM. So yeah, we do we do do a lot of the workflows. So for example, what happens after you communicate with a resident, you actually have to take a lot of actions. So maybe you have to generate um a document or you have to um uh or you have to submit a maintenance request and then that maintenance request has to go actually something has to happen with that maintenance request for it to get done. It has to go to the right person. It has to be put in the right priority. uh it has to uh so we we do all of that actually with our um with our products as well. So it's not just that conversational component um in it's not that interface with the resident but it's actually executing on all the tasks. Um and then yes we have a CRM so people can use uh or agents can interact with the AI and get all the information that they need and it's been optimized so um AI can do most of the work and humans just have to do the very very uh few tasks that get escalated to them and so the customer journey they sign up for the conversational product and then over time they're like oh man you guys are just you have all this data anyways can I just integrate it and like oh actually we can here's our CRM and you and that's how they you know you add more uh revenue per user over time. Is that is that typically how it goes or are you trying to sell this thing as one big bulk upfront sale? &gt;&gt; We have different you can kind of buy different AI agents. Um but actually our CRM is free because uh people are sort of used to having that be the tool whereas we see that as uh more uh the AI is actually adding the value and the CRM is is is over time hopefully the CRM goes away actually because the AI is doing all that work. So they humans have to do less and less. So you don't we don't want to charge for something that over time is going to disappear. So that's that's been our revenue model for for our CRM. &gt;&gt; You know, that is I think most vertical software CEO's worst nightmare. Like what you're describing is when I started talking to vertical SAS founders in 2021 around AI. This was the big fear, right? that an AI agent would come in, take off this top data layer and then integrate and surround them, take all their data and one day just offer their product for free and they could just be, you know, either relegated into a dumb database or just kind of turned off and uh you would be able to capture all the workflows. And it of all the companies I've talked to, it seems like you're the one maybe furthest into that journey. you. It sounds like that's what's happening where these classic property management systems are slowly relegated to less and less useful as a agents automate more of the workflows that they used to do for humans. Am I is that correct? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think there's still a need for those systems because they are sort of the source of truth for data. But how we've always approached it is even from the beginning like okay there's some bad technology in the real estate space but why don't we tackle the places where there's no technology right and when you think about that that's the those are the human workflows and so every time we think about what what do we build next we're not we're not there to just try to capture you know zero some part you know market share we're trying to create value right and so um there's tons and tons there's thousands of things that humans do on site that really are not tasks that humans should have to suffer, you know, have to have to do at all. And so, let's let's automate those versus, you know, you know, going after uh technology that exists in the market. You know, that's just that's just not where I think most AI companies will add the most amount of value anyway. I mean, I lived at one of these big property management, you know, big landlord buildings once and we had the forms where you could sign him up and I found it was easier to text the guys who were the maintenance guys and then tell them I had like a beverage and if they could come fix the thing and it would get done a lot faster than if I worked through the official system. So, it sounds like you've circumnavigated my hack with your AI agents, but it's probably better for everyone all around if that's not how you get work done in your apartment. &gt;&gt; Uh, I think it'll be better for you as well. &gt;&gt; Um, okay. So, I think that kind of takes us, you raised this big round. Maybe talk to me what how that came together of was did you do the tour Silicon Valley? Was it inbound? How did this this big 250 million come together? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, um there was a lot of appetite from insiders to do a another um to fund us with another round. Um so, we didn't have a lot of pressure. We didn't need the money. We actually hadn't spent any of our series D money either. So, um, &gt;&gt; but because there was a lot of interest, um, we we spoke to a few different partners or a few different investors that we had known and built relationships with over the years and, um, and really thought about, hey, what could we do with this money if we were to raise another round and then identified a bunch of areas where we could accelerate our growth and so we decided to do it. Um, we were very lucky to take on really great new investors. Obviously Andre and Horowitz is a is a huge network and uh gives us a lot of resources to and they know you know they have a lot of experience and a lot of portfolio companies that have been able to help me think about how do we go through the next stage of growth. Um Bessemer venture partners also came in and um very strong thesis on vertical AI um a lot of experience investing in in with portfolio companies in vertical AI. So it was just a great kind of a great match and good timing for uh for all this to come together. So, it's actually not a very difficult round for us to to to to go through. Um, it took about 3 weeks in total. So, we try not to distract too much from from the day-to-day and I don't like fundraising. So, do it when it's easier versus do it when you need to and it takes six months and you want to you want to die. Yeah. I Is that wild? Oh, I just spent three weeks and raised $250 million. That's just that's just so much money. Like I try I try not to lose track of, you know, lose that sense of like, oh man, that, you know, cuz it feels rel I saw today a seed round that was something like $116 million. &gt;&gt; Oh my god. &gt;&gt; And I know was like $1.9 million. So it was a very different time. &gt;&gt; Very different. Um, we were no funding for two and a half years. So it was a very different time now. &gt;&gt; Uh, well, yeah. I mean, like, aren't you I'm sure now you're probably grateful for that because it allowed you to find product market fit and allowed you to, you know, no d less dilution than you probably would have otherwise. Do you look back with uh gratitude or do you wish you had raised born earlier? &gt;&gt; No, I think I I I don't think we would have survived actually because if you think about the timeline of AI, you think about um a bunch of different the timeline of real estate adoption, I I think we would have been spending in the wrong places. And um yeah, I mean I I think yeah, I don't think money solves a lot of problems either. So even for the seed company, you know, I don't know what which company you're talking about. And maybe it's a very capital intensive company and you actually just need that to get it off the ground. But for a company like ours, you didn't need that. You need that once you have product market fit. You need that for intentional things to that that you know will be able to make you scale. But we definitely didn't need that at the beginning. &gt;&gt; What does it look like going forward? Do you just see all this place that AI agents can do more or help me understand what gets you excited enough to raise another 250 million and keep going? We have a huge road map. Um, we have a huge road map in housing and a huge road map in healthcare. And when your customers need something, you just have a very strong desire to deliver it to them. And then you resource plan and you're like, "Wow, this is going to be not easy." And it's going to take a lot of people to accomplish all these things. And people are going to be expensive, especially when you're in New York City and San Francisco. Um, and you're fighting for, you know, talent that everyone else is fighting for. Um, so yeah, I guess it's uh I don't know, a desire to keep keep growing and um doing really hard things that if you look around the industries that we're in, we don't think anyone else will do them really. &gt;&gt; For your tech stack today, is it uh help me understand what large language models you're using or like what is it as you've progressed just from conversation to more actions? How has your like uh you know your LLM stack uh shifted? Yeah. So like I said at the beginning, we were, you know, it was very very different. We weren't using large language models. We were spending a lot of time sort of tagging, you know, training data and and building those things ourselves. So we've we've we we don't do a lot of that anymore. Um but we've incorporated uh I mean we use a bunch of different LLMs. I think that's best practice now, right? You're kind of all those models are competing with each other. Um, different LLMs today perform better on some tasks than others. So, a lot of what we do is make sure we're constantly evaluating what's new in market. Can it replace something that we've built before? We never want to be out, you know, be outdated. We always want to have the most performant tools for our customers as possible. Um, so yeah, it's sort of our mandate that we test something that it comes out when it comes out the same day. And so that agility is incredibly important as we're building. Um but yeah, we use a bunch of things. We build our own we build our own things to make sure we're delivering we're delivering products that are reliable, stable, you know, we we we compliant in highly regulatory, highly regulated industries, but also these are large enterprises, right? They're going to not they're not going to deal with something that just kind of, you know, spits out a non-deterministic answer and you can't you can't control what it says. If I were to ask you to choose where all models stop progressing right now or your product uh your product stops progressing. So you have to choose between oh man our software never gets better or our models never get better. What would you pick? &gt;&gt; So it it depends if the models become AGI right then because then the models can build all of the software anyway. uh if I don't think we're I think everyone's trying to get it to that point. So that's a good question. Um do I want do I want the models to become AGI though? I I I really don't think that's a smart way for humanity to go. So I'm going to say I'm going to say models should stop getting better. Um we can build software. Uh uh I think it's it's it's also interesting in our world that you can think in housing it's a very physical uh it's it's very physical right we're dealing with the real world so when we think about um technology part parts of our software that we build that are not large language model based it's like how do you integrate with a smart lock or a lock box so that you can get somebody through a door right if you're trying to fix a maintenance request um and you you know you have to you know hire a contractor and send them over to the building. How do you It's not going to be very effective if you can't let them in the building, right? So, um so I think for for our applications, it's much more important actually at this point that because it's not just having that conversational component, it's really um it's really what do you do with it and how do you how do you drive the right outcome because they'll if if you if you send the wrong person, if you don't get them let them in the building, you just completely fail. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I it's really a roundabout way of asking for you what is more important the AI component or the the software component because the models are are really good right now and uh I don't think there's a consensus answer on this question of are they good enough that we can now go build all the stuff we've been thinking we can build for the last couple years and it sounds like for at least the actions that you're trying to automate agents are the model side is good enough and now it's a lot about building out the software building out all the workflows, &gt;&gt; right? And like I said, if the models do get much much better, then um it it will, but it they have to be able to write sort of all integrations. They have to understand everything and every part of our customers business for it to drive the right outcome. &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; I think it's a little bit far from there. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think we're far away from there. &gt;&gt; Okay, I think that that's all the questions that I have for you. If I happen to have a landlord who's listening in, uh, where would they find you? &gt;&gt; Uh, they can go to our website. It's, uh, eliseaii.com. Um, and then they can, uh, we have lots of conferences around the country, so we'd love to see them in person. Human to human. &gt;&gt; Love that. All right. Thank you so much.
