# We're Asking The Wrong Question About Robots

**Channel:** Evan Puschak
**Video ID:** RwI7C4Ur750
**Upload Date:** 2025-12-30
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RwI7C4Ur750

## Transcript

The idea of robots crashing into our lives soon makes most people afraid that they'll lose their job, that the world will change for the worse or that we'll just get some Terminator like scenario. But right now, where the technology and the competition in the market is, it's weirder. There is a bigger, more central question in robotics that I think is more helpful than just thinking about unemployment or losing our jobs. And I think in answering that question, we get a much better sense of what is happening next in the world. And in order to break this down, I need to tell you about the time a robot walked into a coffee shop. On my frantic 20-minute drive to Boston Children's Hospital, there were 23 different coffee [music] shops. My daughter was due for this important test, and she is scared. And I'm counting these coffee shops, not because I want a coffee, but because I just need something to hold back that fear that's deep inside me. Finally, we pull into the hospital's parking garage, and the elevator door opens, and what is in front of me? But one last coffee shop, but this one is a cube. And inside a little robot arm is making drinks for a line of patrons. So, you can make that 24 coffee shops on the way to Boston Children's Hospital. This is the Hessia Robotics C1 Pro operated by RoboCafe USA. On their website, they brag about being able to make 200 different drink varieties that have all the non-milks and real milks and almond milks. And this little robot arm can do it all. If you go on Alibaba Express, you can find similar robots that go for about $50,000. There's a little white arm in the middle of all these different coffee machines, and it swivels about making the drinks. And so the robot is really just a hand moving between various types of espressos and milk frothers and whatever it may be. By automating away the barista's hands, you actually get rid of the need for a bathroom or room for that person to walk. And you can put coffee shops where you could never put a coffee shop before. Namely, you can put it inside of Boston Children's Hospital. That doesn't mean that there isn't jobs anymore. or it just means the job changes from someone who makes coffee to someone who stocks basically a very fancy vending machine. It also changes the type of entrepreneur that will run these coffee shops. Going from some thirdwave coffee snob into someone who has a really tight grasp of supply chains and real estate and leasing values. And those are the people who will win in these new types of coffee shops, not people who just happen to love Blue Bottle or whatever. Looking at that coffee shop, I was reminded of another demo that I saw on X from Sunday Robotics. Here once again, we see a robot making a cup of coffee, but in this case, it's a humanoid or close enough to a humanoid using a Breville coffee machine. The coffee machine that they're using typically goes for about 700 bucks. And in interviews, the founders of Sunday Robotics talked about how their robot costs about $20,000 to make. So once again, you have a robot making coffee. In this case, it cost you $27,000, but it's able to do so from within your home. Contrast these two examples, and the lesson is that ultimately competition in coffee and in robotics generally is not actually about the labor itself. It's about the physical environment and the market structures surrounding that labor. That is what determines whether the job goes away, if it gets better, if it gets worse. And it's not actually the robot itself. Take for example a company called Blank Street Coffee. This is a ventureback coffee shop that is enormously popular. They have over 90 locations. They just started a few years ago and every time I walk past one, there's just this line of Gen Z people wearing big pants and a little shirt and they all have liaboos and they're all drinking matcha and coffee from Blank Street. What's interesting about Blank Street is that their goal is explicitly to automate away coffee labor to give their staff more time to be friendly or to make higher margin specialty drinks like the matcha. The coffee machine they use is kind of a modern miracle. It does it all. This is from the manufacturer's website, but it makes 700 espressos per hour, eight products at the same time, 350 cappuccinos, and 170 hot water products. This tool costs about 50 grand, which is, if you remember, a very similar price to what the robotic coffee pod at Boston Children's Hospital costs. Blank Street's hugely successful model relies on labor automation because it gives the baristas a time to say hello, to form a relationship, to build connections with the community coming to the shop. I think this points to something broader, which is, you know, people want a drink and they want friendly service. And what portion of human labor provides the drink versus the service isn't really all that big of a deal to the average consumer. So, we have these three different types of coffee automation. We have the robot pods, we have the humanoid robots, and we just have superpowered espresso machines. When we're thinking about, okay, which of these three options wins? Which one of these three options scales and becomes a huge company and changes the way the world works? You need to go back to 1986. That was the year that economist David Tease published a paper entitled Profiting from Technological Innovation. And he tries to answer the question of when someone invents something new, who captures the consumer surplus from that device? Who captures all the value that that new technology has created? And for the people in my audience who are technical or engineers, I have a somewhat depressing answer. It's almost [music] never you. Inventors just don't capture the value all that often. The people who own the complimentary assets, the real estate, the distribution, the customer relationship. These are usually the folks who benefit from having this new technology. The canonical example is RC Cola. This is a company that invented diet soda, but when Coca-Cola and Pepsi got a hold of the technology, they were able to use their superior distribution, marketing, and customer relationships to capture all the value. And now Diet Coke is one of the most popular drinks in the world [music] and RC Cola just doesn't really exist. So applying this idea to the coffee robot in our hospital, the firm that manufactured the robot probably isn't going to capture that much value. It's going to go to either Boston Children's Hospital because they have the exclusive thing which is the real estate or it will go to the entrepreneur who is managing the coffee pot. And remember with both the coffee pod and and the Sunday robotics you are using a more general technology for one specific use case. But the greater your degree of specialization, the greater your degree of thorough pututs, aka the cheaper your coffee is going to be. So when you compare a humanoid robot, the Hestia robot, and then what the Blank Street coffee typically uses, the cost per 1,000 drinks is maybe half just from a technological basis. The machines that Blank Street uses produce such a greater volume relative to the other machines that it ends up not mattering that they all cost around the same. The cost per 10,000 drinks is nearly half because the high quality espresso machines can just make that much more coffee. But like this isn't news. We know that specialized machines will beat generic ones. That's just the way the world works. What's interesting is why that completely changes when you walk through your front door. In a coffee shop, the unit of value is the number of espressos they can make per hour. But in my house, it isn't the volume of floors cleaned per minute or the dishes loaded per hour. It's something a little bit trickier to measure, which is hours of my life that I get back. Americans in particular wildly underestimate how much time they're spending on chores. Most people estimate they spend maybe 14, 15 hours. The reality is it's closer to 42 hours per month, the majority of which is done by women. Over the course of a year, women will spend about 12 and a half days or 299 hours on housework. At the national average wage of 3455 an hour, that's 10,341 of housework that women are taking on every year uncompensated, drawing them away from potentially higher value activities. To automate my whole house today with specialized robots, I would need a robot vacuum cleaner. I would need something to fold my laundry, which we don't even have. Like, that doesn't exist yet. A dishwasher, which I do have, but I want someone to load it and unload it, and we don't have that technology. Even for the robots I can buy today, I maybe have to spend 10 grand to fully kit out my house. And then I'd have to find charging ports and stations and storage for all these different robots in my little apartment here in Boston. There's just not that much space. There's not much you can do. And perhaps most damning of all, those specialized tools would just sit there 95% of the time doing nothing until it was time to vacuum or whatever again. It's the inverse of the coffee shop problem. In a coffee shop, task frequency is high and task variety is low. In your home, the frequency per task is very low, but the variety is very high. All of which brings us back to humanoid robotics. The reason these robots are so exciting is not because they're particularly good at anything right now. It's not that they're fast. It's not that they're cheap. It's not that they're efficient. It's that they can handle variety. And that's what ultimately matters. And that is a variety of task and a variety of environment. Your house was already designed around the human form factor. So just slotting in a robot means you don't have to change how your household is designed around this new tool. It will just seamlessly integrate into your life. So if you do some napkin math, leading humanoid robots today cost about 20 grand. If it operates for three hours a day doing tasks that you would normally have to pay someone else to do, like $35 an hour, you get about $105 a day in value or roughly $38,000 a year, which gives you a payback period in 7 months. Remarkably low. Of course, this there's some massive assumptions here. Namely, these humanoid robots uh don't work right now. They're just mostly in demo videos. And I [music] watched the technology and I'm not sure it's going to work for a while. But the economic logic here is so compelling that the technology is receiving billions of dollars because if just one firm can make this work, it dramatically improves all of our home lives and is remarkably cheap on a time spent basis. However, that only works if the companies work. if the companies making the humanoid robotics can capture the value and our previous research showed that it didn't. So why is this time different? To understand that you need to go back to a 1992 economic framework called the smile curve. This was an observation made about the personal computing industry. Namely profit wasn't in the middle and this middle is manufacturing. On the right hand side is the brand and customer and on the left hand side is the R&amp;D. The people actually making personal computers very rarely were profitable or even survived. So the question is, are robots another example of the smile curve? Is it going to be a straight line or is it going to be a big smile? And the difference between the two is a straight line would be something like manufacturing airplanes where it's just so complicated and hard to make these robots that manufacturers are able to specialize and keep a large chunk of profits. The other option is it this big deep smile is smartphones where it's relatively easy to manufacture at massive scale [music] and the people who either own the customer relationship side or they own the R&amp;D side are the ones who capture all the value. Right now it's looking more like airplanes than it is smartphones. All the leading humanoid robotic companies are vertically integrating. [music] That's Tesla, Neo, Sunday Robotics. They are all building their own manufacturing sites because the supply chain is so tricky to get right. They just need to keep it all in house. I don't pretend to know which of these two futures we're going towards. I don't know if it turns out humanoids are easy to make and [music] there's 20 different manufacturers in China just pumping them out or if it's a more specialized good that can only be produced by people like Tesla. And to be clear, nobody knows the answer to this question, which is why venture capitalists are pouring money into every part of the curve because they know one of those is going to hit and so they'll just own it all and the outcome will be so large it doesn't really matter. And to go back to the original concern that almost everyone has when it comes to robots is are we going to lose our jobs? I don't think so. I think the world will just look weirder. It will look different. Jobs will be different. What we do and how we spend our time will be different. And the best example of this is probably ATM machines. When automation reduces the amount of labor required per location, that actually means you should build more locations and hire more people to staff them versus just hire less in general. Between 1990 and 2010, banks added 400,000 ATMs in the United States. This caused the number of operators per branch to drop from 20 to 13, which sounds bad. People are going to panic. Oh no, there's seven less jobs. But in conjunction, this led to banks opening 43% more locations in urban centers. The constraint in the banking market shifted from the availability of labor to the distance from the customer. Blank Street Coffee is running a very similar playbook today. their unit economics support a different type of staffing, a different type of location that other stores haven't been able to match. I don't think that the Robo Cafe at Boston Children's Hospital is the future. I don't think we're not going to have coffee shops anymore. I just think they're going to be closer to where we want to have our coffee. They're going to be more easy to access. The long-term question isn't whether robots will work. It's who will get paid when they do.
