# The VC Who Disrupted His Own Career — Bryce Roberts

- **Channel:** https://www.youtube.com/@GetTheLeverage
- **Video ID:** akOw1Z6fbxI
- **Upload Date:** 20250910
- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=akOw1Z6fbxI

## Transcript

We have to show that there are other ways to do it. There's other ways to approach this and do it that's super authentic to yourself, but that isn't sacrificing in ambition or upside. I want as many shots on goal for possible futures as possible. If indie can be one extra shot on goal, I think that's a huge win. Ego over ethos is how I chose to do the first one. I wanted to be right. When I wound down Indie the first time, I felt like I let so many people down. going through the ego death of winding down Indie the first time. Like all of that's gone. &gt;&gt; Who needs Iawaska for ego death when you have professional failure, you know? &gt;&gt; Well, uh my guest today is Bryce Roberts, the founder of venture capital firm Indie. Uh you know, most VC funds today look to stuff ever more capital into ever larger rounds. Uh Bryce does things differently. His fund looks back startups raising their first and hopefully last round of capital. There's lots of people have this pitch, but what makes Bryce so interesting as an investor to me is he has accepted a rather large opportunity cost to pursue this strategy because for more than a decade he was a very successful classic seed investor backing companies like Foursquare, Planet, Figma, Fastley, Control Labs and many others. Uh most people would have done this forever or um taken their cabin in Deer Valley and run and not do anything any uh anymore. But uh instead Bryce chose to pivot and really bet it all uh on something quite different. And you know, I've been friends with him for a long time and I've always found his cander and taste and perspective enlightening. So Bryce, welcome to the show. &gt;&gt; Thanks for having me. Coming in live from Deer Valley. &gt;&gt; Aren't you in Deer Valley today? That's actually I didn't know that. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I've got a better setup up here for recording. &gt;&gt; Uh well, I should have done this live cuz I want to come to Deer Valley. I should have come in person for this. &gt;&gt; You have the open invite. Bring the baby. &gt;&gt; That's right. Well, I want to go back to the early days because you were at uh the firm was OATV and you were one of the very first people doing seed investing. I'm curious h how dumb did you feel when you were trying to describe to people what you did for a job? Did it feel crazy when seed the seed category was first invented or did it feel inevitable &gt;&gt; back then? It it felt somewhat inevitable. The metaphor we had was like there's angel investing and there's traditional venture investing. There's this big gap in the middle where people can't write 500k to a million dollar checks. Entrepreneurship is changing. So the O in OATV was Tim O'Reilly. At the time Tim had just popularized the term web 2.0 which came from his group O'Reilly Media. And as we looked at this um kind of confluence of trends and technologies that were driving web 2.0, Oh, it's like, oh, there really is this moment now where entrepreneurs can do for 500k what only a few years ago it would take them 5 million to do. And so, why wouldn't there be a new category of funding that could emerge to kind of fill the gap between the way we've kind of previously done it? And I don't know, it it kind of immediately took off even though we were early. um you know in we raised our first fund in 2005 there were probably I don't know I'd say four or five other kind of institutional seed investors that were coming up at that time and when I say institutional seed investors not just their own money but they'd gone out and raised from fund of funds and kind of classic institutions to kind of make it a real thing and you know it was only a few years later that there were 50 of them &gt;&gt; you know and now I mean shoot we've got 5,000 of them and you know seed you know as a category when we started it actually didn't have a name right so like there were people thrashing around kind of trying to piece together what to call this thing and you know we had for a while we had the super angel so someone who could write an angel you know ostensibly an angel that could write a bigger check you had um micro funds so like a traditional venture fund just shrunk down to like this smaller thing but I think when When we started it, the idea of seed felt more expansive than just a check. It felt like there was this kind of new dimension to entrepreneurship that it could potentially unlock, which was optionality in a way that founders didn't have it before. Because obviously what success looks like when you've only raised $500,000 can look very different than what it might look like when it was, you know, 5 million or 50 million to kind of get something up and off the ground. And so, you know, at that moment in time that we were raising our fund, there was this kind of healthy subund million acquisition market of like Flickr, Blog Lines, Blogger, like there were these smaller um outcomes that were happening that were still kind of changing people's lives and if you had been an early backer of some of those generating kind of venture multiple types of returns. So that was kind of the stew that was coming together around seed back then. And you know to your earlier question it did it felt inevitable. It felt kind of like obvious like what we can't be the only ones that are seeing this happening right like we just happen to be one of the first to kind of get out in front of it. &gt;&gt; When you say the infrastructure like the cost had come down because that would have been say 2005 2006 from my memory is right of when seed really started to become a thing. That wasn't like AWS was just starting off at that. &gt;&gt; Oh yeah. It launched a web 2.0. Yes. The conference that that Tim organized. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Um so is AWS like I guess the the thing I'm wondering is how much of it was distribution advantages of the internet versus decrease infrastructure costs of the cloud or was it both simultaneously? &gt;&gt; I think it was both simultaneously. I think one you had the cloud but you also at the same time you had open- source software. So you had these frameworks emerging like Ruby on Rails, you had Linux, you had MySQL. So you had this like whole kind of emergent stack that was starting to kind of um be pieced together by developers where historically like in in um the dot days, you would have to raise a big round of funding because you had to go buy Sun hardware to run Oracle databases. like there was this very expensive, very proprietary stack of technologies that you had to build just to kind of get to the plate. And with open source, it basically like removed all that. Suddenly, you've got commodity hardware running open- source software. So, you took, you know, millions and millions of dollars of cost of infrastructure and shrunk it to effectively zero. And then, you know, what kind of piggybacked on that was you had online distribution in an entirely new way. So around that time uh Google had come up with the AdSense model. So suddenly you could have a consumer product um whether it was even a blog all the way down to a consumer app and you could just plug in effectively a business model from Google and you could start monetizing it right out of the gate. So you started to get this kind of early traction and early revenue. Um so it's this kind of confluence of costs coming out and to your point with the cloud you know this new kind of emergent property that for them started as something called S3 which is really just like storage so you know but evolved into like a much more robust set of compute offerings that then became like oh wow all of this stuff is starting to kind of unlock and you know for us the idea was like where tech entrepreneurship had been this very like ins insidery game of Silicon Valley. Suddenly, when you removed all that cost and all that requirement for funding, would there be a new kind of cast of characters that could show up and participate when the cost gets closer and closer to zero? That was kind of when an an open question was seed back then for us. &gt;&gt; So, you have this decrease in infrastructure. I I think the open source thing is interesting too because there's a community element to it. There's this hacker rebellious community where you know back it's easy to forget now when software is so proprietary but back then there was this real thought like actually all software is going to be free and so there's this simultaneous decrease in costs increase in I don't know like the hope of entrepreneurship of making a different world in the internet and seed capital coming in all at the same time and you get this really magical mix um in Silicon Valley And one of the things that's interesting about that period for for what you were doing is the range of companies. I don't know if people actually paid attention to the intro, but uh Forsquare was kind of so was social media and it's been a bunch of other things since, but Planet was is satellites. Figma is design uh enterprise software. Fastly is software. Control Labs uh was is hardware. Um, it seemed like your guys' portfolio was just all over the map in the best way possible, in a respectful good way. Um, so I'm curious like what were you looking for in that that mix back then? &gt;&gt; So if our name O'Reilly Alpha Techch Ventures, which was a real mouthful, O'Reilly, we covered Tim O'Reilly, O'Reilly Media at that time, they were kind of center of the universe for all things. I mean, web 2.0 you know, the the early maker movement around, you know, kind of consumer hardware. They were like they were on every magazine cover. I mean, every they they saw everything, did everything. Alpha was actually from an idea that Tim had, which was not like investment alpha as we historically think about it. Alpha was what we called alpha geeks. So alpha geeks were in every group there's an influencer um and and an influential and there was alpha alpha geeks came from a a really old New York Times article that was titled the alpha pups which kind of went to New York playgrounds and watched like who were the kids with like the cool clothes and the cool like that were at the basketball courts who really like drove behavior among the bigger group. And so we had a working theory, this was 2005, 2006, was like the alpha, like just follow the alpha geeks. Like whatever they're doing, whatever they're interested in and what they're spending their time on, you know, during nights and weekends, like that's the stuff that actually ends up being interesting. And so, you know, for web 2.0, so much of like almost everything comes from the alpha geeks. So, you know, when you look at Planet, you're like, how in the world does Planet fit into this portfolio of web properties and consumer internet and and the way it fits in is that when I met the planet people, you know, they were working at NASA and they were just scratching their heads as to why it costs so much money to build imaging satellites and they were playing around with a bunch of little projects and ideas they had. And so they came up with basically this little imaging satellite that they duct taped a cell phone to and somehow convinced NASA to let them launch this thing and see what happened. And first try it worked which then like kind of created this whole like microat world. But all of that started from like a nights and weekends project of them just thinking about it, tweaking it, you know, trying to figure out why the world isn't working this way. And I think you know for us when you look at that OATV portfolio it's incredibly eclectic but the through line is like oh all of that stuff became inevitable right like we were doing satellites I think that was in our second fund so this would have been 2010 to 2012 is when that fund was deployed so we are talking like 15 years ago we were like this is what people were working on now you know planet's a publicly traded company um But yeah, we were very much we used to use this graph in our um in our fundraising deck which was like the Darwinian graph, right? like the, you know, the the alpha geeks, you know, were basically the, you know, the early prime, you know, early man monkey, you know, the MBAs were the upright man. Like the alpha geeks were like in the primordial soup of all of that, kind of playing around with the possible. And so that's where we would always kind of point investors towards like where we get involved with something. And so those timelines can be relatively unpredictable. But what becomes inevitable is most of these things that people work on, you know, especially these alpha geek types, um, you know, they become inevitable parts of, you know, the future. And so when we were building that portfolio even back then, you know, it was like we don't know, we would always say to our LPs like we don't know if we're right, but we will always be interesting in terms of like like this this will always be moving directionally correct. whether we get the timing right on like you know fund duration and all that stuff that's we have a lot less control over that but we have a lot more control over kind of what um what areas we're going to be you know putting our energy into &gt;&gt; interesting so you had this con it's so funny now when content is all the vogue you had this content arm uh a decade ago more than a decade ago you had um &gt;&gt; I mean I think yeah O'Reilly's been around like 30 years maybe more and and it's been a bootstrap profitable company the whole time. But the um you know the platform was really like we were publishing books for all these alpha geeks. We were like yeah O'Reilly was at the front end of writing about every meaningful breakthrough technology. I think, and Tim will have to correct me if I'm wrong, but like the they had organized a group of open-source software developers where the term open-source was actually agreed upon. Like, you know, that that's how kind of in the trenches they were. And I think, you know, I look back on my time as as Tim's partner, that's one of the great gifts that he gave me was just like kind of being a bit of a trend spotter and kind of filtering out, you know, the signal from the noise. And they did that through their publishing and and the whole purpose of the fund back then was like, "Hey, we have this like massive top of the funnel of interesting entrepreneurs and ideas. Like, let's let's try to make hay with this while we can." &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, it sounds you have like the ideal setup. Like that's pretty that that's cushy, right? like, you know, you got a successful portfolio, you're meeting interesting people, &gt;&gt; um, and you have a partner who's bringing just ungodly levels of deal flow, &gt;&gt; and that's just that's just a great that's a great place to be. And you make the very logical choice of thinking, hm, I wonder if I should change everything. Um, &gt;&gt; maybe I should just blow this whole thing up. &gt;&gt; Yeah, maybe I should blow this up. Um, I I mean, and thus has birthed Indie. talk about the earliest stages of where this idea started to whisper to you. &gt;&gt; Oh man. Um I think the the earliest whisperings of indie were meeting um Mike Cannon Brooks from Atlassian &gt;&gt; at Web 2.0 and then shortly thereafter meeting um Tom Preston Werner in like the very very early days of GitHub. Um, and I think what impressed me most about them was that they were highly ambitious, building very unique companies and cultures, going after venture scale types of opportunities, but they were rebuffing every every, you know, approach by VCs. I found that super compelling and I thought this is, you know, this is a really strange twist. almost everybody um that I had been meeting at the time like venture had become such a core part of the entrepreneurial experience and yet here they were kind of bucking these trends for very very intentional decision. It was you was a very intentional decision by all of them. They they were very fundable businesses and both of those ultimately ended up going and raising money down the road. But there was something about the way that they were wired that and the way that they wanted to build that was incompatible at least at that point with the current state of venture. I just kept seeing this over and over and then around 2012 we moved back. We had moved to the Bay Area as a family. We had moved back to Utah. When you get back to Utah, like everybody is bootstrapping. Like there wasn't a healthy venture ecosystem back then. um and got to know people like Ryan Smith at Qualrixs or Aaron Sconard to Pluralsight. These were people who were building like massive businesses but effectively bootstrapping all of them. Again, each of those ended up raising money, going public, all of that. But there was something about the way they were thinking and building um that made them want to at least put off venture for some amount of time. And I think at that time like Kickstarter, which was this high-flying company, you know, Perry had like really shifted from leaning in on venture to becoming a like a very sustainable big, durable private business. And I think all of that to me was like, oh, these this is kind of faint signal like something's going on here with the way entrepreneurs are thinking about building their businesses. And at the same time the OATV funds had performed so well that um my partners had started talking about retiring. And so that gave me this opportunity one to say like do I want to retire too? The answer to that was no. But then the next question is okay um seed as an asset class had matured so much like we were yeah we were 10 15 years into seed at that point and the you know the game had completely changed. So it was like okay is there another gap in the market somewhere um with a similar kind of timing axis that seed had um to do something different and because I was kind of in the mindset of these kind of venture scale bootstrappers I thought oh maybe something's happening here um and so I started kind of chipping away at the ideas behind indie this was probably 2015 2016 something like that. Um and I think the idea for me like very roughly was okay if if angel investing or if seed investing was the gap between angels and um VCs. Indie is the gap between bootstrapping and like full yolo venture fundraising like getting on that kind of venture treadmill. And this was like peak unicorn talk. this was like, you know, this was like just in the runup to Zerp and I just got really enamored with that gap that, you know, that that that um idea. Um, and so that that's kind of where the seeds of indie started for me at least. &gt;&gt; And what year was that? &gt;&gt; Oh man, that was probably 2015, 2016. I mean, I like the I probably talked about indie for three or four years with people just kind of stress testing some of the ideas and then I think 2016 a a friend of mine &gt;&gt; basically was like dude &gt;&gt; do it or don't but stop talking about it. Like you've been talking about this for so long like the only way you're going to figure out if there's something here is to is to try it. And so what I what I you know I tried to do it in a lightweight way where we set up a website that and a brand that had nothing to do with OATV just in case like no one cared. It could just go away. Um and I wrote this like very cryptic post with no name attached to it. Um and I and I published that on January 1, so New Year's morning. I put it out there. I emailed it to like five friends just saying if there if you know anybody like we're going to give this a try and it was at the top of Hacker News for like 3 days. Like it just kind of immediately took off like something about it really resonated with people back then. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; And so that that's kind of timing wise where it was coming together. I think I was looking through some of your old posts on Medium um to prep for this call and the interesting thing from that period of when Indie first like you put the website out there and you started writing essays and building community and trying like you were trying to get this thing off the ground. &gt;&gt; It was um it was a little culty is the only way I was the word I was like reading through the comments. I was like, "Wo, people latched on to this and latched on to your ideas in kind of a not a weird way because I I think just but in a strong way like people really really liked this on the internet." &gt;&gt; Um, is that an accurate read? Did you feel like a little bit I don't know. Uh, did it feel culty? Did it feel like maybe a movement? Movement's a better way to say it. &gt;&gt; I feel like cult. I'm Mormon, so I know lots about cult. Um, and I I actually I actually don't call it a movement because I there was a quote that I loved and I can't remember who said it, but it was like it's only a movement if it moves without you. &gt;&gt; And so it was definitely like it felt more cult leadery. It was like I was saying the quiet part out loud. I was saying and pointing out things in the current venture model that were just so obviously broken or contorted. Um, and I think that deeply resonated with a lot of people who wanted they wanted a different experience. They wanted something else. I think for better or worse, I think it um in the early days it attracted a lot of kind of anti-VC negativity too, &gt;&gt; which you know my intention was never to be anti necessarily to be anti-VC. would say like look like here's how the startup industrial complex works. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; And if you want to play that game that's exactly like know the rules, know how this works and like be prepared to play that game. What I was proposing with Indie wasn't to change that game. It was say look there might be a different way to do this. And if if this works, if there's a different way to do this, one, I'm pointing to these companies I mentioned before to say like, look, they did it. &gt;&gt; Like, isn't that compelling? I mean, Mike Canon Brooks is the wealthiest person in Australia. Not because, you know, necessarily Atlassian has the biggest market cap, but because he owns so much of the business, right? Like he and his partners, they did one round of funding before they went public. That was it. And so, like, look at the kinds of cultures you could build. Look at the kinds of companies you could build. Look at this kind of vibrant range of outcomes that you can, you know, can look at in terms of what success looks like for you if you play the game a little bit differently. Um, and so I think that's what tended to draw people to it pretty early on. And I mean it was it was it was overwhelming. I mean, you know, I think um even I was takenback by how um how much people embraced a lot of the ideas and ideals that we were putting out there. Whether they embodied them wholly, it didn't really matter. It was just like, let's have this conversation. This is a conversation that felt like it needed to happen. Especially at a time where like, you know, leading into those articles, it was like I mean, you know, we had a burning unicorn head on our website. We were like, "Look, you guys, this like crazy unicorn culture that you're rooted in. Um, you know, look at the incentives behind this. Look at why this is happening. Like why you're getting so caught up in this and you're kind of losing the plot." And I think that that resonated deeply with a lot of people. some in the valley, but also I think just more broadly I think there's a bunch of people who um you know they just don't like they look at the way the valley works and they're like that I don't get it you know like I I I mean I get it. I can understand it but like I don't get it. I don't like I don't think that's real. I don't think that's right for me. But it's like if you opt out and you say that's not not right for me. What is right for you? And I think part of what I was trying to do with India, maybe why there was such a cult-like following was just like, oh, there's this new opportunity space here. We can kind of define it in a way that's more natural or native to us. And and I left it open enough for people to be able to kind of put their own fingerprints on that. In fact, you know, a big part of the early kind of missionary work of Indie was just like, come one, come all. Like this doesn't work if it's just me talking about this stuff. So, like let's get credible voices in here. Let's amplify the credible voices. Let's get more investors that are looking for these types of dynamics. And and I think um you know that for the first few years like that really you know that was a huge tailwind for us. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um, I think what's interesting particularly about your cult is the one membership group that was maybe most important, um, but was the one that you couldn't get, which was the limited partners. Um, limited partners really had an issue, really struggled to wrap their arms around this. I mean, talk, you know, talk me through a little bit of the fundraising problems that that occurred as you started to make this pivot. Well, I I I think it's probably the tale of two like pitch decks would probably tell the story the best, which was for our third fund for OATV. Um, the entire pitch deck was like six slides and the slides were here's what we said we were going to do and here's what we did. And it was basically like everything that we told you we were going to do, it's the same. Like we're just gonna keep doing the same thing we've always done. and like does don't you feel some degree of comfort that the product you bought 10 years ago is going to be the same product you're buying today? &gt;&gt; The next pitch deck was like very different. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; And you know in the world of LPs I think there is a um you know like generally what's worked is kind of always worked and so just kind of keep doing the same thing you've always been doing. And when you look at like the changes that are happening in um venture today, it's not so much any new ideas. It's just like new idea, you know, same ideas on steroids. So it's like growth funds have always been around. Well, now we're going to raise a hundred billion dollar growth fund. Media properties for venture has always been around. We're going to we're going to make the A24 of A16Z. You know, there's like there's a whole, you know, everybody's just like it's it's the same stuff over and over. And so when we came in with something that looked and felt different, it was just like, "Oh man, like what do we do with this thing?" And it's no shade on them. It's just like um they didn't know where to put us. We were talking and our background was early stage venture. We had made them lots of money across multiple funds. Um but we were talking with a private equity and like growth equity vernacular. And so like the the overlapping circles of that in their mind and portfolio like don't exist. So it's like there what happens when you have a provocative idea and there's no basket or bucket to put you in? You're in a pickle. I mean, you know, you either like really dilute what it is you're trying to do and like somehow shimmy into one of those two or, you know, you keep beating your head against the wall for a while, hoping that the world and, you know, the LP world in particular kind of catches up to the idea or that your performance can then match um, you know, what it was they expect to see from a fund like yours. Um, neither of those two played out for us. So, you know, obviously if if your pitch to entrepreneurs is like, um, we want to help you get profitable and only raise on your own terms, many of your companies will get profitable and then never choose to raise again. And so, in the world of venture, you are graded on both your realized returns, but in the near term, for an early strategy, you can be graded in a much shorter term on markups. So what happens when you have a company that's very profitable but not getting marked up? You know, your numbers don't look that compelling, right? The markups are one thing. Um the kind of social proof of those markups is obviously a big part too. I know when we started so much of the evaluation of seed funds was based on like who's mark it's not just the market, but like who's marking it up. Is it a top tier fund that's marking it up? And so, you know, wi without hard fast performance data, suddenly you you just look like this middling underperforming fund that doesn't really fit into anybody's bucket. And at the same time that I'm talking about like fundamentals and profitability, everything's ripping crypto off the charts, you know, like every SAS company with a, you know, that was publicly traded was trading at like a 50 to 60x multiple of like forwardlooking, you know, projections. It's just like I I I was just I was just it was the wrong timing and the wrong audience. And so, you know, after a year or two of trying to raise on that story, um, you know, I basically had to make the decision of, um, what to do. And what to do at that point was like, well, I can't if I can't scale it up because unfortunately for me then and now, I'm like a very ambitious person. And so I wanted to like raise my$25 or $30 million first fund and then go raise like a monster fund because I saw how big this opportunity was shaping up to be. Um I had this kind of um moment where I had to be like, okay, am I just going to take my ball and go home? &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Like if I can't if I can't be as big as I want to be, then I don't want to be at all. And that was kind of the idea. And so I I ended up for that first phase of indie which lasted from about 2016 to call it 20 maybe 20 2022 maybe. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; I think those were like the active windows of that first kind of wave of indie which was across two funds. So I was able to raise two but they were small funds back then. Um and then um yeah, I just took my ball and went home and I didn't know what I was going to do. I mean, you know, like legitimately I have we have a video on our on our um on our YouTube that talk it's called indie lore and yeah, I was basically like unpacking this like super uncomfortable time for me where I'm like, "Okay, am I I mean, my partners are off sailing. They're like living their best retired lives. I'm like, "Okay, I'm in the mountains. Like, should I go be a farmer? Should I go be a ski bum? Should I like hang out at my kids' game? Should I open a restaurant? Like, I don't know. Um, what I ended up doing was just like um eating my feelings through angel investing. And so, I did a lot of angel investing, you know, just kind of non totally like like pallet cleanser stuff, like I'm just going to whatever I think is interesting. I don't care if you're profitable. I don't care if you're whatever. Um, and I did that for, you know, probably a year and a half, two years, something like that. And then, um, yeah, and and and that was wholly unsatisfying as anything like binged typically is. Um, but yeah, it it it was it was it um confirmed for me that I couldn't just go back and do traditional venture anymore. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Like that that chapter of my life was closed. that was just not interesting to me. Um, but if there were like a bigger theme to be advocating for and investing behind, like that's what I could get excited about. And then the bubble popped. &gt;&gt; When I think of you as a person and like what I know about you, you are a you're you're a bit of a glass chewer. Like you you you delight in suffering. Um, and I what this indie story is a really good example of it. There's all these other parts of your life. Um, you're a jazz season ticket holder. No one wants to be a jazz season ticket holder right now. Who wants to do that? Um, &gt;&gt; and you you have patience and longsuffering. Uh, and so I I think that's admirable. I those two funds that you raised for Indie, now that you're deeper into the life cycle of them, how how are they looking? Is it has that worked? &gt;&gt; I mean, &gt;&gt; yeah. I mean, there was a there was a part of INDV1 where we had like a cash distribution part of it like if you chose not to raise again and we just had to get our, you know, our return out somehow. So, we came up with this kind of redemption model &gt;&gt; and you know, that looks like it's on track to return the whole fund. And then we've got like a whole handful of like companies that have really broken out that are doing tens of million in ARR that we own, you know, significant double-digit percentages of ownership in that um because they've never had to raise anymore. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; And so, you know, I think we still have a lot of optionality kind of baked into into those funds that I'm still super encouraged by. &gt;&gt; Um Yeah, it it's I don't I don't know if funny is the right word and not sad either, but you were right. Like that's the thing. You were right. You like you you called it and but the you maybe were a little early from an LP timing and from a from a market perspective. Does that is that the right way to summarize it? &gt;&gt; I think that's I think that's right. I think I also got some of like the tactical pieces wrong. Like this redemption thing was actually a huge put off for a wide swath of entrepreneurs and it's also what you become known for, &gt;&gt; right? So it's like, oh, indie are like the debt guys or like, oh, if you take their money, you're on the hook for like this crazy multiple of return. You're getting into like the cost of capital game. Whereas in venture, no one car like no one calculates their cost of capital for a massive round of funding. It's just not the way people are wired. And so, you know, I think I think that was a part of it. I also would say like at the time like that kind of classic wave of bootstrappy companies. I would argue like that um culture kind of died with the Mailchimp acquisition. And so you did like &gt;&gt; venture had become so much more of the aspirational route than like having a business that throws off cash. And so I think timing wise on that front it was rough. And I just think messaging wise we ended up, you know, kind of um we were trying to create the tailwind. There wasn't like a real financial tailwind. Like I said, if you looked at the financial markets like you know every fartcoin was up 3 million% and like you know and institutional LPS were like I want some of that fartcoin. I want some of that coin. I want like you know they were literally allocating to all of those strategies and they're looking at me like you're a freaking idiot. &gt;&gt; Um &gt;&gt; but then you know like the ZER bubble started to deflate and people were like oh we got to get back to fundamentals. Suddenly there became a bit more of a tailwind that I could tell a story around. So from the I would say those first six years were like very glass chewy. That was like principled me being like I see this. I know what this feels like. This feels just like seed did back in 2005. Like this is going to be a thing. Um by 2022 2023 it was like oh all this capital is receding from the market. um companies, you know, you had this like unicorp idea of like, oh wow, we really like the party's over and all along people had said like, oh, you just need a good crash for people to kind of understand the indie model. And so here was the crash and I was on the sidelines. And so what I started to do was one, um uh you know, I I just I just couldn't shake it. I could I just could never shake indie as like a a theme. And so, um, I just started to kind of like piece together like, oh, okay, less capital available, so we're going to need more cash fishing companies. Then this AI thing starts to pick up and suddenly like these pieces the missing piece of that was the gift of Zerp to Indie was that you had the largest graduating class of venturebacked startups and early employer employees at venturebacked startups in history. No one had ever in my lifetime experienced so much exposure to the venture model. And so part of the tailwind for India at that time was we now have this massive graduating class. There is going to be a wave of second and third time founders who want a different experience. They're going to want to build differently and potentially Indie could be the partner that they can work with to do that. So it became less about like anti-VC or like profitability maxis or like you know any of that stuff and it just became a very pragmatic lens to look at and say there's a new class of entrepreneurs that's coming and then you have this kind of new wave of founders that weren't male chimps and they weren't these like dogmatic bootstrapper types. They looked and sounded a lot more like linear, right? We're like linear has been profitable from the beginning. They've raised a bunch of money too, but controlling their own destiny and like having more control over their product decisions and over their company decisions and culture decisions. Like they've been fully remote the whole time when it was in vogue and when it was out of vogue. Mhm. &gt;&gt; And it they don't care cuz that's the culture that they built. They didn't have to have a VC breathing down their neck telling them you got to get everybody back to office. 996 this is the new reality. You got to move to Miami. That's where everybody's like that's like the kind of you know that's just kind of the whiplash that people get on that VC treadmill. And so you I saw them I saw Christina from Vanta where you know she got to profitability super early in their in their life cycle. They got to 10 million in ARR before they brought on like a big series A investor in Sequoia. And so there were more of these like composite stories coming together that weren't the purebreds. But that's okay because the idea with indie was always that middle ground that you know that that the difference between like open AI and base camp or 37 signals right like there's so much space in there and then there becomes the cohort of like really high quality founders in the case of you know in the case of linear you've got Ki who was Coinbase he was Airbnb like he had been inside the belly of the beast of some of the biggest unicorns and had made the intentional decision like that's not how he wanted to build and I think that was becoming a you know notion is another one where it's just like it was very clear that there was this new cohort of experienced founders looking to build differently and for Indie like we just want to be wanted to be their their partner and so that's that's where the seeds of of Indie coming back started um and originally it was just going to be uh you know my our family like I I I was so burned by LPs I was like I don't want to kind of go that institutional route. So when I made the decision to kind of bring Indie back, originally it was just going to be us um me as a solo GP and just our own personal balance sheet, but then there became some interest LP interest and so we ended up closing a in proper indie fund one uh and uh first of last year. So what was that? 2024 um January 2024 we closed the new fund and I've just been investing that ever since and that one has like proper institutional ops as part of it. So I think they were starting to see the same thing. I think there was faint signals in the existing portfolio like oh there's something here but I think they were starting to hear from their VCs and they were also starting to see from their portfolios like you know something had to change because um the quality and depth of the portfolios they'd been funding through Zer were like you know a mud puddle. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I'm curious how did it feel for like you as an individual like did it feel validating? Did it feel or did it feel more finally or like when it fin like when those LPs finally came around you're like oh we're actually doing this for real for you know I uh how did that feel? &gt;&gt; Oh man. Um I mean it felt heavy. It felt like you know when I wound down Indie the first time I felt like I let so many people down. like it felt like such a massive failure &gt;&gt; because like you said there like there had been a whole cult built around it like it was a worldwide thing. We had different you know I open sourced all of our documentation so like people were standing up versions of indie all over the world &gt;&gt; and I just felt like I let everybody down and so that was kind of why when I was going to bring it back I just wanted to do it with my own money. I didn't want the pressure of of um all those expectations on us. But you know I I mentioned it earlier like it's it feels inevitable. It feels like this is every bit the opportunity that seed ever was. And so I also felt I feel the like weight of the responsibility of like proving this out like you you know um we have to show that there are other ways to do it than what you're hearing on every other podcast and what you're getting from every like thinkfluencer in the tealverse. Like there's other ways to approach this and do it. that's super authentic to yourself. Um, but that isn't sacrificing in ambition or upside. Um, and so I felt hugely grateful to everybody who took a risk on, you know, fund one. Um, I feel hugely grateful to all the entrepreneurs we're getting to work with so far. I mean, I feel like at this stage in fund one across all of my previous funds that I've done, like I feel like it's the strongest cohort of companies we've ever had in any from any of even our OV funds. And um you know, I mean, I just felt like every good Mormon man I cried and I was like, you know, like in my feelings about it. I felt like um you know a real stewardship for some of these ideas. Not ownership but just like okay we've poured a lot of energy into this. Let's go make it let's go make it work. I mean for me it's just like you know Kobe gift job not finished right like we still have you know like fun one is like it's fine but like I'm thinking about fun 10. I'm thinking about like the breadth of products that we can start offering through this kind of indie brand and what it is we're trying to build and how much opportunity is out there for us. And like I don't know I I just feel like I have a new lease to just go as big as possible on this. &gt;&gt; And to me that's really exciting. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I think uh you know we've talked I I can't remember how long it's many years and really as like an outside observer I think that's one of the things I've admired most about what you've tried is like you feel a moral weight to it and a lot of entrepreneurs that I meet and and investors that I meet they're just like it's just the game of capitalism you know you're just doing it and I it's a level &gt;&gt; and look I know how to play that game that's why I'm like I I could go back and do exactly what I did with seed invest like I know how to manipulate the board to like optimize for the outcomes that LPs and some modern entrepreneurs are looking for. That's just not interesting to me. Like &gt;&gt; I think the stakes of the future are so high right now. I want more than Mark Andre or Sequoia or anybody else dictating what future we get to live in. And so, you know, one way to avoid this kind of venturebacked future is to create alternatives to it &gt;&gt; because venturebacked will always be maximum extracting, maximum acceleration. um at the you know at the kind of consequences be damned almost like you know I mean even now in the early days of of these you know chat products like the term oneshotting like the the number of people who are outsourcing their actual thinking without any kind of consideration for the repercussions I think the stakes are incredibly high and yeah I just want to make And and to be clear, I'm not bagging on any of those guys. I'm just saying I want as many shots on goal for possible futures as possible. And the way that we can do that is having a bunch of independent actors out there taking different approaches to the problems in front of us, to the emergent technology in front of us. I think one way to do that is through this more independent approach that we're advocating through Indie. And sometimes that'll mean more optionality for founders in terms of what successful outcomes looked like. And sometimes that'll mean being able to build companies and cultures they wouldn't have otherwise because it didn't fit within the kind of constraints and trade-offs of the venture treadmill. I think that's important. I think that the future is important enough to that. And I also think that this kind of wave of repeat founders and early employees, they've lived it. they've felt it and you know I I just think they're going to want something different. So that's what we're trying to give them. &gt;&gt; Yeah, that still hits you and that's not to knock like you can play the game that's fine. I just think I think the stakes are too high to outsource your own thinking and strategy to like what is optimal and you know accessible. &gt;&gt; That's still a good pitch. That that resonates with me. I'm like, "Yeah, like I feel that." I'm like, "Want to do the Matthew McConnA chest bump?" Like, "Yeah, yeah, you're a great co-leader. I can see I can see why you're so popular on Medium." &gt;&gt; Oh my god. Me and the five people left over there. &gt;&gt; Yeah. All five people still using Medium. &gt;&gt; Oh my gosh. Going crazy over there. &gt;&gt; Um, no. I I I think that that really resonates too for like what I think even with what I'm building where I was like I want I I want something that's still participating in this system of startups and capitalism but comes from a place of like beauty and ethical consumption and like like it's it that feels different &gt;&gt; and um like when you look at what is being funded and what the funding environment looks like there you're right uh most of these funds They're looking for one very specific arc type, like very specific metrics and an understandable thing that they can map out under their portfolio risk. And I, you know, I'm friends with all those people. Like I I like them. I write about them. I think those businesses are important, but there there should be a different way. And like I so I agree I agree with everything you're saying. &gt;&gt; Well, like I said, it's not a knock. It's just like let's be explicit about it. That's one way to do it. I don't think that should be the only way to do it. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And so I think, you know, if indie can be like kind of one extra shot on goal there for a different way to think about doing this, I think that's a huge win. &gt;&gt; I think if if it inspires a bunch of others to do the same, even better. &gt;&gt; Um, so the fund's been live, you said January last year, so 19 months. &gt;&gt; Um, how like what how deployed are you? How how deep into the fund are you? &gt;&gt; We're like just over 50% deployed. Are is it uh are you trying to do a reserve strategy or you just trying to deploy the whole thing um in first rounds of funding or how do you think about that? &gt;&gt; Trying to deploy mostly in first rounds of funding. We do have a few companies that have really broken out early on and have raised rounds. So we've, you know, we've kind of evaluated in one-off situations whether participated in those or not or if we do SPVS to support those. I think right now the exercise is like what is the um what's the breadth of an indie portfolio? What should that look like? Right? Because we have even today we have things that have uh gotten our funding pre product pre-revenue frankly pre- company &gt;&gt; um all the way to companies that have bootstrapped to I think the most bootstrapped company was probably like 5 million in revenue when we funded them. Um but you know even now like I'm looking at opportunities where they've bootstrapped to tens of millions in revenue and so like what's the breadth of those opportunities? You know we had a we had the opportunity to participate in linear series B recently. like I wouldn't I don't know that I would have anticipated that upfront when we started Indie that we'd get access to this kind of range of opportunities but um there's something about the what we're doing how we do it and what we're advocating for that seems to kind of attract a whole wide swath of founders that I'm before we even start kind of exploring what the next fund will look like I'm trying to wrap my arms around Okay, I don't want to be underfunded. I don't want to be undersized for the opportunity ahead of us. Um, I'm willing to be patient, but not that patient. &gt;&gt; You know what I'm saying? &gt;&gt; The early indie portfolio was really all over the map. You had everything from the shade room. &gt;&gt; Um, which is a great business, by the way. It's a great business, cultural icon, um, and you have software companies. Is uh this new iteration of indie is it still as eclectic or or are you more focused on typical tech uh startups? &gt;&gt; I think by nature I'm pretty eclectic but this is probably more conventional for sure. This is like most of the stuff has been like software you know forward deployed services that lead to software. you know, it's it's pretty it's relatively conventional, but that that's probably some combination of what our network is surfacing for us versus um you know, and trying to internalize the lessons that we learned through India as well. Like we were all over the place. We did consumer products, we did media properties, we did all kinds of stuff. and I love the shade room and I think, you know, she would argue we had a big impact on the direction of her business. Um, but I also think that's like an end of one property. Like there, you know, you kind of knew when you met her, she wasn't going to be like the 50 others that were out there doing it. It was just like, &gt;&gt; yeah, maybe uh from I think most people uh not everyone's going to be familiar with the shade room. Give me like the one the one or two sentences on what that company is. I mean, it is the um it's the media headarters of black culture is how I would describe it. And I think what was always interesting to me about her was she was I think she kind of um reframed what a media business looked like at a critical time. This was pre-substack. I mean, she basically built on Instagram like the biggest media. I mean, you know, on Instagram it was bigger than at the time BuzzFeed, Vice, like Vox. If you look just at follower count, she was like multiples of any of those on Instagram. And you know, rather than post a couple times a day, she was posting like hundreds of times a day on Instagram. And you know, she just really it was like so native to her how she went about like building this that um the minute I saw it I was like she has to be involved with indie. I reached out Jenna Woreram over the New York Times had just done a profile on her and I was like Jenna I need to talk to this person. Um so thankfully Jenna connected us and um you know there was just like an immediate connection. I think for some reason she kind of immediately trusted me in a way that she hadn't with other investors that were coming around. Um, and I think for me I was just like you're going to get a bunch of advice to go like duplicate Vice and Buzzfeed and everything that like VCs want to fund right now and I am telling you what is special about you needs to be protected. That's all going to be terrible advice. And thankfully she you know she got involved in the very first cohort of India and now it's like it's a massive business. I mean you know it's &gt;&gt; it's um you know the audience just keeps growing. The kind of media property as a whole keeps growing. The cultural influence is like off the charts is still showing up on TV shows and rap songs and like &gt;&gt; I mean it's it landed me in a in a diss track for a rapper. Uh it it like it gives you like this crazy credibility in every circle when you say you're an investor in the shade room. It's it's really funny. But no but but she to me is like a perfect prototype. It was like &gt;&gt; if you had gone the market like every one of those properties I just mentioned is gone &gt;&gt; or zombied. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; Right. &gt;&gt; Yep. I mean Buzzfeed is parts &gt;&gt; every single one of them. &gt;&gt; Yep. even complex if you're talking about like uh culture like this complex was big in the culture 10 years ago and now it's uh pennies &gt;&gt; completely irrelevant and just trading hands and like trading down every single time it's like there was something so unique that needed to be protected with her business and one way to protect that is just to keep you know she hasn't ended up raising outside money um but that's been at her choice right like I think she has so leverage. If she she wanted to go raise, she could um multiple times over. But there's something about controlling your environment that I think is really critical. And I think it's something that entrepreneurs in the sake of playing the game are willing to outsource and sell short way too early way too often. And I think as a whole, the entrepreneurial ecosystem and the tech ecosystem is worse off for that. And so here you have this media property, you know, using her as a case study. Here you have this media property that has totally outsized influence on her audience. Um, and anybody else who's tried to reach them through more conventional ways is totally irrelevant. And so how many more of those could exist across any number of sectors where you can just bring such an authentic vision and persona to what it is you're doing undiluted like what venture asks of you right from the beginning. I mean it's in the very funding mechanism. It is delilution like and it's not just delilution on your cap table. It's delution in your vision. It's delusion in your culture. It's solution in what it is you're trying to do and what you envision. Sometimes that's healthy because people get out over their skis, but a lot of times I think it rings out some of the more interesting bits, you know, that you could carry forward into a company because you're trying to kind of play the game on the field. If I, you know, we've been talking, let's see, like a little over an hour, and if I can make a judgment on your life off of a hourong conversation, which I'm totally about to do. Um, I'd argue the early like that first glass eating phase of indie maybe maybe part of the reason it didn't work and the reason it's working now is that it got caught up in the mechanisms versus the ethos &gt;&gt; where there was programs and you had these complicated financing vehicles when maybe the thing that you should have done was start a religion versus uh first. Um, no seriously where like there's like these it's a it's a way of being like it's the indie way of being is the more more important thing and the you know even even maybe the type of company is less important but like and that's what's working now is like hey the indie way of being of founding of companies of operating and like it seems like now you might have figured that out a little bit more and you're so you're less picky when it comes to um you know you don't need to have debt vehicles or whatever it may be. &gt;&gt; Yeah. No, I I'm a I'm an alliteration fiend. So, I would I would actually say it's like ego over ethos is how I chose to do the first one. Like I wanted to be right. &gt;&gt; I wanted to like be right. I was more interested in being right than being good. I was more interested in being right about my ideas. And I think going through the ego death of winding down Indie the first time, like all of that's gone. I've got nothing to prove. I'm just like trying to, you know, um I'm just trying to thread together all these elements of a world that I'm observing that hopefully is consumable for the kinds of entrepreneurs that I believe can have the biggest outcomes for a for the future. And I think I had so much of my own personal identity tied up in V1. I think it did not serve me or the objective of indie well at all. &gt;&gt; And so um we we're trying to put aside the ego focus on the ethos. Thankfully that ethos and that persona has a lot more legibility in this market than it did back then. Um but yeah, ego is the enemy as they say. you who needs iawasa for ego death when you have professional failure you &gt;&gt; I mean there's some very real truth to that and when you you know I mean you're married too and when you have a spouse who's like willing to like sit there in the darkest most awful moments and just let you unpack it all and and not judge you and um be a real partner for you. I mean you got to remember like I'd gone from two partners to no partners. I was on my own. I was left to my own devices. And you know, to have somebody who was really willing to sit there and be patient and tell you like, look, if you never do anything again, it doesn't matter. Like we we got this. &gt;&gt; Mhm. um was so reassuring that like even in the worst case scenario as I felt it at that point um that there was still like lots to look forward to &gt;&gt; and there were a lot of learnings to unpack from it and there was a lot of like personal improvement to take from it. &gt;&gt; I think yeah that that that was all such an important part of that you know kind of shedding so much of that ego stuff. That's not to say I don't have ego anymore as you know, but um you know I would say yeah the the um yeah the the stakes feel so incredibly different and so much lighter this time around &gt;&gt; and you're benefiting once again you have the cultural difference I think with the what all the founders learned from the zer period and you have the infrastructure change right now once again like there's a dramatic decrease in the cost of startups named code code is just so much cheaper than it used to be with artificial intelligence that &gt;&gt; Oh, that's exactly right. And there's so many more like &gt;&gt; what I've really enjoyed is there's so many back then I had to point to like companies that weren't terribly aspirational for a lot of people. Now you're like, "No, this is happening like right now. This is not an old story. This is like I just p we just published a video with a company called Gamma. They have like an AI &gt;&gt; um PowerPoint replacement. They have a much bigger vision than that. But like here's a company that today is doing all of this tens of millions in revenue very profitable for the last few few years. Um doing that with like a handful of people. &gt;&gt; Like every single person on that team has been handpicked. There's no like B+es. Like it is totally designed for this environment. So now to be able to tell those stories and the way that companies are being built today, it's not like, oh, look at how they used to do it. It's like this is the future. Like you can get on board or you can keep living with like this zerpie thing that you used to do. But I am telling you like we're just going to keep telling these stories and we're going to keep funding these companies and we're gonna at least show a different way to do it. And I think when you talk to repeat founders in particular, like they there's nothing more they love than a small focused team on a problem that they care all care about. Like no bombast, you know, no need for bombass, no need for like inflating headcount. I think all of those kind of create this amalgamation. You know, it's these are all the dots that I think I now get to be able to start piecing together for like the modern indie story. &gt;&gt; And that feels like fundamentally different than any other time we've tried to do this, let alone the fact that like these costs and savings are are are very real. &gt;&gt; Okay. Well, this was awesome. I I really enjoyed this. Um, &gt;&gt; this is super fun. Do you want uh typically people like they want a plug if do you want do you want do you want a plug uh you want you want something if people want to find more actually you uh they should listen to your podcast your podcast is excellent your video show where you interview founders um but beyond uh where can they find you if people are interested in learning more &gt;&gt; I have been fortunate to land the handle at Bryce this is pro probably explains the gray hair better than anything you can find me at Bryce on on Twitter Twitter, X, Instagram, Venmo, you name it. I'm &gt;&gt; Bryce. Hit me up. &gt;&gt; That's funny. Even Venmo, that's the impressive one. So, if you want Bryce's attention, send money to Bryce. &gt;&gt; Like, of all of them, like, you know, people are like, "Oh, Instagram, that's cool." When I tell people I have Bryce on Venmo, like you would be shocked. That is definitely like the most like uh Yeah, that that's the most clouty username I've got. Okay. Well, if if you want to follow more what Bryce is buying and who uh he's splitting dinner with, follow him on Venmo and all the other social platforms. Thanks, Bryce. Thank [Music]
