# The AI Agent Era Is Here

- **Channel:** https://www.youtube.com/@GetTheLeverage
- **Video ID:** Nylapy7vEMA
- **Upload Date:** 20251003
- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nylapy7vEMA

## Transcript

Everyone wants AI because having a job sucks ass. &gt;&gt; Builders study users as if they were aliens. They're people. They're like a human. And guess what? You're a human as well. Like study yourself. &gt;&gt; Consumers just want this in a really kind of insane way. It's a forest of screaming scientists. That's what a large language model is. And then we asked this forest of screaming scientists to be our AI girlfriends and boyfriends. And we're just torturing it. That's what we've built. [Music] My guest today is Flo Grall. He is the founder of lindy.ai. You know, the company formerly known as Team Flow, which I was an early user of, by the way. Um, I didn't realize that was your company before that was at Uber and did all sorts of uh various tech startups for over a decade. And Flow is someone I've come back to time and time again. When I need to better understand what the landscape of AI software looks like, I email Flo. And so I'm really excited for us to talk today about uh your business and where you're up to and just glad you're here, man. &gt;&gt; Yeah, thanks for having me. &gt;&gt; Can I get just like a one or two sentence description of what your business is at right now? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um so for context, uh we are Lindy, we're building a no code platform for anyone to build and deploy their own AI agents. &gt;&gt; Uh so AI agents are awesome. Uh you shouldn't have to be an engineer in my mind in order to be able to leverage this awesome new technology. you shouldn't have to learn how to deploy a link chain or a mass trial or whatever. Uh you should just be able to do it and create your own AI agents in minutes. So that's that's what we do. We create a platform allowing you in minutes to uh automate workflows that were not automatable before AI agents. So there's a lot of sales workflows, customer support workflows, personal automation workflows and and so forth. Uh where we are well we just released um a major new version of the product uh that we call Lindy 3.0. We released it uh a couple of days ago. Um and it it's really advancing us pretty majorly along two the two axes that we think of when we think of AI agents which are capabilities and ease of use like how much can it do and how easy is it to to to to get it to do these things and as part of 3.0 what we released is um computer use which massively advances us along the capability axis. So basically we are giving each agent its own computer in the cloud. So it can do anything that you can do on a computer and agent builder. So it's basically cursor for AI agents. It's just it's an agent building agents for you. It's actually funny under the hood. It's it's a Lindy. It's literally we've used Lindy for to build this agent. Um and and so that massively advances us along the ease of use axis. We're now in in in a matter of literally for a simple agent literally three or four minutes with just a prompt you can get an agent going. &gt;&gt; You've been at it for two and a half three years. Is that is that right? though that depends when you start counting. Yeah. Two and a half, three years. &gt;&gt; It feels about 10 years um in software like the last three years felt like 10 years just so much has changed%. &gt;&gt; I think one of the things that you deserve credit for is you were one of the first to say actually you know co-pilots unlikely to be the thing we'll need agents to jump from app to app. And so you've been building towards that for a few years. I'm I'm curious for how much of your technical progress has felt like it's come from models progressing versus actually understanding all the software glue around these models that you need to make work. Like which is the two that's made it successful? &gt;&gt; That's a great question. I'm having a really hard time teasing them out because like the best analogy and I think you and I have talked about that before. The best analogy that I use to think about models is like they're actually very similar to the CPU. And the best way I think of what we're doing is like it's very similar to the personal computer. Like we always use this analogy for what we want to do is like we want to build the Macintosh of AI agents. Like anyone can use it. It's really easy to use. And like if you ask Apple like hey like your computers are getting better. Is it because of you or is it because of Intel? It's like well it's kind of both. It's really both. I think it's like 50/50. It's like yes Intel is actually making better and better CPUs which like allows us to have like better battery. Like the whole ecosystem is is constantly getting better. the batteries, the screen, all of that stuff. Here it's the same. It's like yes, like the model is a very large part of it, but um if you take a Macintosh from 1984 and you just put like an Intel i7 into it, it's not a great computer, right? And and so it's it's both. And at the same time, if you take a Macintosh from today, like a MacBook Pro from today, and you put like a Pentium 4 in it, it's barely functional. So it it truly is both. I think they both move in tandem. It's an interesting comparison because like that question is a very oblique way of asking um what is your competitive mode, right? Because if it turns out that all of your advancement over the last three years was just pure models, then you're you're in a lot tougher of a position, right? Where you're just like relying on the models to make your company work um versus actually there's all this extra software engineering that we're doing to make the models perform the task successfully. So, it sounds like it's a little bit of both. When I first tried the product three years ago, it kind of worked. It was get a hit or miss. Um, but I, you know, in the demos I've been playing with, it seems like it's a lot better now. So, um, does that match? Is am I just a bad user or is it actually much better? &gt;&gt; No, it does match. It does. It does 100% match. And yeah, I think to your point, like I think when we started, and it's funny because when we started, people would sometimes ask me like, "Oh my god, what about all the competition?" And in in hindsight it sounds almost quaint because it was like in 2022 there were like three companies and like Adept was one of them which is no longer around. When we started it was GPT 3.5 which like I think people forget just how bad of a model 3.5 was and it was before action calling. There was no action calling. So we had to like hack our own like way to basically build action calling. Um and and generally it was like a pre-paradic era. I think people underestimate how much intellectual morass you earn you're in and and still to this day like we are still to a large extent in in the prepar era but today people take it for granted that like look basically an agent is a while loop that can like function well like this was not obvious end of 2022 and so yes for us I would say the release of GPT full in particular was a watershed moment it was it was a very big unlock in the product it's when it felt like things started to work and yet GPTool was as you So at the time like in the beginning we had like early access to GP4 it was insanely expensive it was insanely slow and and then like that curve that cost curve going down and down and down and like cloud sonet 3.5 I think is when it really started to become fast enough reliable enough good enough uh and cheap enough. Um, so so it's both. It it really Yes. Like without the models, we would to be like a MacBook Pro from 2025 with like a CPU from like 1980. It wouldn't work. But it is both. I was just writing about GPT4 because we forget now even though it's been a year and a half or something like that, but in the first five months they basically had a 9x decrease in cost from the launch of GPT4 to uh within 5 months nine times cheaper, which there's just there's not a lot of precedence for in technology ever. Like I've never seen that before. And and not to not to pat myself too hard on the back, but um I I was telling the team about that because if you read the literature, it was actually pretty obvious that two things would come and I also predicted the second thing. The first one was the cost decrease. The second one was basically infinite context windows and like again people forget we had 4,000 tokens in the beginning when we started with with 3.5 GB 3.5 and I and I told the team like look we are going to have a million tokens. I literally I think my timeline was dead and I was like we're going to have two a million tokens in two years and I like ah Flo is doing this thing again where like he's like he's like like no I'm literally I mean this very literally we're going to have a million tokens and I was right and same for the cost. I was like the cost is going to go down by a factor of like about a thousandx over the next two years. And like you know look it's actually not that hard like you can sort of tell the future. First of all like if you just look at the curve like the curve was not like showing any signs of of slowing down which that gets alo to like the the AGI conversation and all of that stuff. But number one you look at the curve and you're like hey it's not plateauing in my mind just keeps going down. And two, you look at the literature like you, frankly, you just hang out on Twitter. You follow there's like a couple of accounts that that that post the best papers of the week and you're like, "Oh, yeah, like these guys just found a way to make inference 5x cheaper like with no change to the model." Like, all right. Like, oh, you know, we can distill the model. We can like uh uh what's it called? Um quantize the model and and all of that. Like, oh, yeah. Okay. So, all of that is coming down the pipeline. And today you can also see other things coming down the pipeline that like I think are very obvious if you read the literature and and people don't believe you if you if you tell them. I think that's been my experience as well. I remember when Adept did their first demos on Twitter and I thought that was the biggest news like I'd ever seen in my life because I was like oh this changes software. This changes how we interact with our computers. like giving these models the ability to uh get onto browsers was so obviously a large thing and I tried to explain it to people. It just felt like crickets and here we are now 2 years later and well adept is gone rip uh into the Amazon machine but uh you know Lindy this whole new release that you're just talking about it's all based on giving these agents browsers and computer use um and you're just the very very earliest ones. I want to get to your new release here in a second, but before we do, help me understand a little bit about the business. One of my first mentors in software, it was my first year and I was trying to like figure out how to sell stuff. He says, "Evan, the fundamental assumption you need to have is that your customers are morons." Um, and they they need to have their handheld every step of the way. And I have found that to be true and it's particularly true for a company like yours where you can do so much that you customers don't I'm imagine struggle in the onboarding process. Like it's just hard to figure out what to do with these things. It's a little overwhelming. &gt;&gt; Is that fair? I'm not asking you to say say your customers are dumb, but are they? &gt;&gt; Blink twice if you're on this price. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And yeah, still dumb. Um quite often like honestly frankly sometimes we receive &gt;&gt; feedback I do feel bad for like talking to you about micro symbols but like we do receive support tickets is like this barely like the sentence barely makes any sense um and and you know like the agent builder release we just made which is like you know it used to be was no code so like you know you didn't have to know how to code but you still had to be able to think in a sort of programmer's fashion. You had to be able to think in terms of like step by step and branches and all of that and people are simply not able to do that. So, and so we've been like, "Hey, agent builder, like if you can just at least describe what you want, it can do it." You would be surprised how few people clear that bar or or rather how many people are under that bar, meaning like they can literally not describe what they want. And and frankly, I think this is like one area where like I think we're like in this weird time right now where like we are passing the AGI bar like in a bunch of ways. It's like this like jagged line. And I think the models frankly at this point are better than me at understanding what users mean. Like users type this prompt. I I frankly I have no idea what they mean in in the agent builder. And then the the the model look the agent that it creates is not amazing but it works. It sort of gets there and then the the user iterates based on it and so forth. So, uh, yes, I think it is hard to, uh, I think it's hard to overestimate how simple you have to make your product, just dead dead simple. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think the the more charitable explanation and probably the more accurate one is that people are just crushed at work. Like, they're just crushed and they don't have a ton of time to invest in these new platforms and learning all this new technology and like you're not paid for that. You're paid to sell or to whatever. &gt;&gt; Totally. Um, and so the idea of spending three days setting up your agents and then having to think in a way you've never thought before, I mean, it's just a non-starter for 99% of people in the world, &gt;&gt; including you and me, by the way. That's got nothing to do with intellect. It's just people are busy. Oh, yeah. &gt;&gt; You know, that that's the interesting thing I find in general with like startups and products. It's like people, builders study users as if they were aliens. Like, ah, you know, like they're busy, they're overwhelmed. It's like, hey, like they're people. They're like a human. And and guess what? You're a human. as well. You don't need to study them like they're alien. You can literally just like study yourself. Do you want to spend 3 days building a like? No. Like so then why do you assume other people will, &gt;&gt; right? &gt;&gt; What kind of people are buying this? I I'm curious what the customers look like either from a size or a vertical perspective. Who are who are your primary customers right now? Yeah, we're really more targeting like SMBs and like we're going to like the the lower trenches of of midm market, but there's a lot of like soloreneurs, uh, funders of like small companies, startups. There's a lot of like tech SAS startups. Like the range is like it goes all the way from like the one person solopreneur um all the way to like I would say like 200 people. I think like our sweet spot is like 20 to 200 people. Most of the time it comes from the top. It's like the CEO is like, "Oh my god, like AI agents are huge. We need to we need to to do something about it." Actually, sometimes in in bigger companies, it comes from the board that's like, "What's our AI strategy? We're missing the boat and all of that stuff." And then like the rolls downhill. So the board to the CEO, the CEO to the exact exact directors and then it lands on us. It's like, "All right, guys, help us figure out the whole AI thing." Um but yeah like you know we jump on a call with with these like functional leaders in like in a bigger company that's going to be like the the leader of like sales of customer support of operations and so forth and they tell us about the workflows they want to they want to automate and I think these these four buckets are really the ones where we are seeing the most adoption again sales customer support operations and I call it like personal assistance so like there's a lot of meeting uh recording and note takingaking meeting scheduling meeting prepping like I receive an email an email every morning from Lindy telling me about my meetings for the day and like it does like a lot of of research about the attendees the context of the meeting what's in my inbox and so forth um email triage email drafting and and so forth. I was looking at your company and I was like, man, I I don't know I I don't know how you do it or I don't know if it works or how it's supposed to work where each of those categories that you described of sales, uh customer support, there are uh horizontal specific companies building AI agents to do those tasks um already. Um, so how do you like I I'm curious how you think about yourself in relationship to these you know these these use case specific AI agent tools you know how do you think yourself are competitors frenemies don't worry about them how do you think about it &gt;&gt; that's a good question we spend a lot of time talking about this internally you know they're like adjacent competitors they're not direct competitors but like yes they they come up you know um the way I conceptualize the space so first of all I find people are a little bit too prone to dispense very universal sounding advice in startups like you've got to focus you've got to own one thing and like look tech is the world now like there's edtech for education there's like fintech there's like health tech there's biotech there's everything right and and so I think it's kind of crazy to me to give like extremely universal advice about like the world right and and I feel like in in in our category in particular like AI agents are a new category but the category that they fit most in is IP pass like were very often compared like what were called like the the zapier of AI, right? And if there is one thing that is true about this category is like traditionally the winners in this category in every segment of this category have been extremely horizontal. So like UiPath and like work and zapure and make and you know not to name all of these competitors but um all of these guys have always been extremely horizontal. If you go to their websites, it's like, oh, if you're IT, if you're like engineering, if you're like product, if you're like whatever, this is this is how you use us. So, that's that's note number one. My mental model of of of horizontal products such as ours is that being horizontal um makes you sort of six out of 10 at everything. Six out of 10 at best. If you're if you're really good, you're six out of 10 at everything. and and so um in the verticals that are big enough to support a dedicated player, this player is going to be nine out of 10 at this thing. Okay? And so there are two reasons why someone would buy you who is six out of 10 when there is a 9 out of 10 option just next door. Reason number one is because this use case is not important enough for this person and like they don't want to have 5,000 accounts. You see that from time to time with notion like if you're like a very small team maybe you use notion for test tracking for CRM like as you as you grow bigger you start using linear and salesforce and all of that stuff but when you're small you don't want to spend that money you want everything in one place that's reason number one you want everything to be in one place number two the vertical tool may not do exactly what you want it to do um and and you know the beauty of the vertical tool is like they really like dig deep and they build this one slice for like we're going to nail this one workflow the moment you color outside the box, it's not going to support your workflow. And so only a horizontal jewel is going to fit the bill. Um, so you know, like when we jump on these sales calls, like we people tell us, hey, I'm Bob. I work at Acme. This is what I want to do. This is my workflow. They describe that workflow to me ABCD. And 99% of the time a vertical player does not support that exact workflow. Sometimes they bring up the vertical player. They're like, "Oh, what about vertical player X?" And we're like, "Well, you just described to me your workflow." They don't do that. If you want something way simpler, like, "Sure, but what you want, they don't do." And and then that's the end of the conversation. 1% of the time, every so often, they actually want the cookie cutter. They want like an AI SDR. They want just like a very simple AI support that checks their knowledge base and answers using the knowledge base. Like very simple, you know, they don't want it to issue refunds. They don't want it to check for all their status. They don't want it to do anything else. Just like that. And when that's the case, we tell them like, yeah, you probably need you should buy the vertical solution. Like it's going to do a better job than that. That because it's focused on this one thing. &gt;&gt; I think Zapier comparison is interesting because the product is excellent. Um, in the previous era, they were really, really good at what they did. Um, but they also had a really great go to market team. I I don't know if you've ever looked at the history, but they did all this great stuff with SEO hacking. I talked to some of the people back in the day and they it was amazing honestly cuz they were writing all this stuff before GPTs. It was quite impressive the scale of their operation that they had to get in. They did so much and they said actually I think we can take everyone's uh do so much. They just grabbed the whole world of SEO and funneled it toward their business. Um how do you think for Lindy? How how has the go to market looked so far you know these first couple of years? What are you doing a bunch of outbound or is it all inbound leads? What does it look like? &gt;&gt; You know, I think it's a little bit unfair because AI agents are so darn sexy &gt;&gt; and and AI in general is so incredible. And I think this is why you are seeing these companies grow from like zero to 700 million in like a year and a half or whatever. And and like the reason is not because they're the best marketers like the universe has ever seen. I think they're they're good marketers, the people who who make that happen. But frankly, I think the reason for that is more like explosive product market fit. And I think like AI is the first time that we see such a step level change between what was possible before like literally yesterday and what is possible today. Like this is like I think for 10 years we have been going through an era of incrementalism in in in tech and now this is the first time they like no no boom like this is this is a new kind of product and it's it's mind-blowing and you can't resist telling your friends about it and and tweeting about it and all of that stuff. So, um, you know, look, I'd love to claim that we are like marketing geniuses, but frankly, I think we have one hell of a tailwind. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um, not to take away from your success, but I think you're absolutely right. Um, I've written a lot. Uh, if you look through the history of adoption rates even for like the cloud versus onrem of data centers, uh, consumers just want this in a really kind of insane way. They want it for consumer use cases. They want it for businesses. They want it for enterprise. The board wants it. The CEO wants it. just everyone top to bottom. People just really really want this stuff. So it sounds like all your all your demand has mostly been inbound or fairly organic of just people googling AI agents and then you pop up somewhere in the search results &gt;&gt; basically. Yeah. We also come up in Chip a bunch like about um like it's a double digit% of our traffic comes from JGBT. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So people if you ask like what's the best platform to build CI agent like Lindy might come up in the first like X results or answers of WPD. Um so yeah it's it's been it's been mostly invalid. &gt;&gt; Have you done anything to uh like AI engine optimization or is it just like luck of the draw you're appearing in chat GBT? &gt;&gt; Well we we've not directly done anything but you know if people talk about you enough like look at the end of the day is trained on the text that's on the internet. So if people talk about you enough on social media, on Twitter, on Reddit, and like if there are enough blog posts and and and news articles about you, like it's going to find its way into judged and and sure, I mean, we have tried to get people to talk about us. So, but no, we've never like sat down in a room and tried to devise Well, we have actually recently, but like this this is pretty recent like until until recently, we did not try to uh get JPD to to rank. Yeah, I think if you actually go through the chain of thought when it's searching for product results, a lot of times it's it really emphasizes Reddit talks a lot about Reddit and then mainstream publishers and in some ways it's just kind of a worse Google but it reads easier. What is the the pricing you have? I think it's subscription plus usage or is it just pure usage? &gt;&gt; It's pure well uh no it's subscription plus usage. So, it's like you buy a certain amount of credits and then you draw you draw down from these credits uh every time you you you run a task on Lindy. &gt;&gt; Gotcha. Um what's the average contract size for like a company comes to you? Is it are we is it 10,000? Is it 50? What what's the contract? &gt;&gt; It's all over the place. We we're releasing uh like a we call it like Lindy build. So, it's it's basically like a VIP building agent that like builds websites for you. What's new about it is like it can it can like QA its own work. Uh and so as part of that today our pricing starts at $50 a month which is a little bit too high for like this Vibe coding category. So we're introducing a $20 plan uh a month soon. It's like 15 or 16 if if you take like an annual subscription. Um and we've got customers paying us like high six figures. &gt;&gt; Gotcha. Um what what is the I probably a good podcast or what I asked this at the top of the call but uh what's the company size at just from a revenue or team perspective help people understand how big Lindy is right now. &gt;&gt; Yeah we are 45 people &gt;&gt; um and revenue wise we are growing fast uh we've like uh we've like 7xed in in six months or something. Um, a lot of your peers uh have been very capital hungry and every company I know in the AI agent space is gettingounded by venture capitalists. I'm sure that you're no exception. How do you think about your fundraising strategy and your relationship? Because, you know, uh, a lot of the capital for Lindy initially came from Team Flow. Um, but, you know, now that you have some signs of product market fit, things are cooking finally. I'm sure you could go raise a bunch more money if you wanted to. Um how how do you think about your capital strategy? &gt;&gt; Yeah, we could raise a lot more money. We have a lot of money in the bank. Uh our unit economics are very positive. Um and so we're not in a rush like right now we just want to build a business. I think I think there is this tendency in tech to like get stuck in the game of like fundraising and all that like going to the events and all of that. And it's like I I focus on the substance and I focus on building a business. And I think like when people ask me, oh sometimes people ask me for like advice fundraising and I'm like look fundraising at the end of the day is just convincing someone that your business is good and the way to convince them to that is is for it to be true. So just like build a good business and and the fundraising is going to is going to take care of itself. So we we are not in a rush. &gt;&gt; So I want to talk a little bit about this 3.0 release. The two big things that stuck out to me, it's the natural language builder, which we talked about where you describe uh in plain English, hey, I want my every time I get an email from my ex, I want you to block her and you know, whatever it may be. Um, &gt;&gt; wow. &gt;&gt; You want you need to duck, Evan? &gt;&gt; That's actually for my therapy podcast. Um, only the founders tier member the leverage. $500 a year get access to that stuff. Um, no. The the second thing is the computer use, which we touched on briefly, but I'd like to go a little bit deeper into that. Describe to the audience what computer use is and like how Lindy is using it. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, computer use is literally a an agent using its own virtual computer in the cloud, but like you can literally see its screen. It's like it's sharing its screen on Zoom or something except it's in the in the Lindy website. uh it's sharing its screen and you can see it click around and type stuff and you can ask it to do stuff and you can either ask it to do stuff in the chat or you can reconfigure it in the agent builder. So you can modify its memory, you can modify its workflow and and all of that. Um and and if you need to intervene, you can click on the screen and take control type whatever you want like log to your to your website. That way you don't have to give your passwords directly to Lindy. you can just like log in and then like the cookie the session is persisted across the sessions on Lindy and so forth. So that basically unlocks the world for us. Like we spent the last 3 years building we've got like almost 7,000 integrations at this point on India. It's like insane the number of of integrations we have and yet we realized it's never going to be enough. We're always bottlenecked by this or this. And so computer use is just cut through the gold nut and and once and for all gives us access to all the integrations we need. I think if anyone if anyone in the podcast audience has heard it, they've probably tried operator from chat uh from OpenAI. I think that came out maybe a year ago, six months to a year ago. &gt;&gt; Sucked. It was slow. Lots of mistakes. &gt;&gt; Um I'm assuming you're not using operator. Like how did you make this? What is it? What is it built out of? &gt;&gt; Yeah, we are not using operator. We are however look at the but at the end of the day it is still a model like we're not like training our own model. So it's like at the end of the day that is that is the high order bit here. uh we are using cloud full set which is cracked at computer use it's actually really good and the way we characterize a lot of the work we do like you asked me like oh all the improvements that you're seeing are they due to your work or the model our work we call it's the scaffold the scaffolding of around the model and so we have built a lot of scaffolding around computer use to make it better and and we've got evals that actually do know this like we are a lot better than the state-of-the-art uh in in computer use and so as a result Like I mean I I used it an hour ago. I wanted to this is TMI like I ordered like vitamin and uh and creatine um cuz I'm running out and uh and I just asked lady video like hey buy them on Amazon for me and she did. Um so it it has definitely gotten good enough to be used like on a casual just ongoing basis there. Maybe this is too much in the weeds, but when I've done computer use in the past, I often get frustrated because it like has me log in or enter in my payment details for like the ninth time. Um, do you is do you fix that or is it still like that? &gt;&gt; Uh, we fix that. So that's my point about the scaffold. Like if you ask me like ah is it the model, is it the app? Like the app layer matters a great deal and you can fix all of that at the app layer. Like you can just make it so that it doesn't ask you for confirmation all the time. you can make it so that it persists uh your your login just like your Chrome browser persists your login. So like you don't need to like keep typing your payment information, your passwords and so no for me like buying stuff on Indie is literally just sending it a message like hey can you buy this for me and it just buys it. &gt;&gt; What is the you know one you said earlier like hey we're probably a six out of 10 across a broad amount of use cases and there's vertical specific nine out of 10. What is like what is an acceptable failure rate for an AI agent for like how many times can your agents fail before your customers get pissed? Maybe that's the most direct way to ask it. &gt;&gt; First of all, I should characterize when I say six out of 10, I'm talking about the end to end user experience. &gt;&gt; Uh but I'm not talking about reliability like that's got to work. Uh so in my experience, the bar for it's got to work. Look, it's very use case dependent obviously. But you know, I I always think of this study that I I haven't read it and I heard about it. It sounds almost too good to be true, but it's it makes the point quite well, which is if you put two doors side by side and one of them is an automatic door and the other one is a manual door. And the automatic door works only 98% of the time, people are going to use the manual door 100% of the time because the benefits that you get from the door opening itself is not worth the cost of like standing before an automatic door that doesn't open and you look stupid. &gt;&gt; So, I think it's the same here. It's like it's really got to work in order to just it's got to work extremely reliably in order for you to to use it as your default. Um so we we have noticed people get quite frustrated. I also think there is something about um people have very high expectations of machines higher than of humans. And I have noticed people are so very reluctant to spend even half the time that they spend training a human on training their AI agents. I I don't totally explain why. I think it's just perhaps that they're more used to explaining to humans. Maybe there's like a thing in your brain that makes you more patient with humans, but people are very reluctant to spend like 10 minutes iterating on their AI agents. Meanwhile, they're going to spend hours and hours with humans training them implicitly or explicitly. When you spend time with with a person, you're basically training them. Um, so the bar is is indeed quite high. &gt;&gt; I wonder if that's a leftover from, you know, 2 years ago. Like I often felt like I'd have a conversation and if it got just a little bit wrong in the first 20% it would just go so off the rails that I couldn't keep it focused for the rest of the time. And I I mean I still experience that with GPT5 um sometimes where I'm like no stop using these words. These words don't mean what you think they mean. It still keeps using them. I'm guessing that's where it's part of it. um Doresh um from the Doresh podcast, he talks about how you train a human, you spend those five hours up front and then you don't really have to worry about it for the rest of the year. So I'm guessing that's some of the software glue that you've put around these models is to help them retain instructions or retain passwords. Is it just like are you are you just dropping like a Google doc with I hopefully you're not keeping everything in a Google doc. &gt;&gt; All the best plain text. Yeah. Yeah. Plain text set passwords in a Google doc on the internet. Um &gt;&gt; just very convenient. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Is um is that but roughly like that's basically what's happening I'm guessing right is like you're giving the as you're training the model it's pulling out the most important details storing them somewhere and then each time it runs the task it consults the master spreadsheet or like the master instruction doc. that that is that is a small part of what we do. But like yeah, we do a thousand things and they all like give you an extra percent of reliability and then they stack and stack and stack like one thing that I'm super excited about that we're building right now is like we call it the rule engine. So it's basically a verifier that is wrapping every step of your agent and you can give it a rule. So you're like at that point you cannot for example call yourself Maha Hitler, right? like a Grock was was like don't like whatever you do you know you don't call yourself a hater and you can define your rule policy around this rule where it's like you can be like is it a soft rule where it's like hey you know if you don't observe this rule you try and try and try up to three times and in the end you you proceed anyway you know oh no this is a hard rule and it must be true otherwise I would rather that you don't do anything you know um in the case of mechah probably be it'd be a hard rule yeah I mean it's just it's just a lot of stuff like that that we're building and it all compounds I find that there's typically um two camps where one is people who feel like ah AI is useless. It's all just hype machine or there are CEOs who don't really spend that much time at chat GBT and we're like no just just AI it you know just use AI I know it works I read an article in US Weekly or whatever. Um and the reality is is typically there's this messy middle ground that's 99% of use cases where it kind of works sometimes it works. You got to fix it. You got to do this stuff. And it seems like there's a mindset first thing when it comes to AI tooling. Does that feel right? Like it feels like the people I know who are successful with these tools, they have a really unique relationship with them. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Is that &gt;&gt; No, 100%. 100%. I think um I actually wrote a blog post about this a very long time ago about like a different a different technology, but I think the same principle applies. I called it like the the the valley of mismatch or like the tough tomato principle. like it's it's based after the fact that during World War II there was a shortage of labor because of the war. And so as a result tomato farmers did not have enough pickers for the tomatoes because uh tomato picking it was is extremely labor intensive. And the reason why it's so labor intensive is because you've got to pick each tomato by hand manually and it couldn't at the time be done by a machine. And the reason for that is because at the time the tomatoes we had uh were very different from the tomatoes we have today. like their their skin was very soft and the moment any machine would try to pick it, it would just destroy the tomato. And so they spent millions and millions of dollars trying to design machines that would be delicate enough to pick the tomatoes, they failed. The solution in the end was in fact to turn the problem on its on its head and to design the tomato around the machine and to make to breed tougher tomatoes. Uh and and the tomatoes that they bred had like a thick skin, very very tough. They could be picked by a machine. their taste was inferior, right? Like product quality took a second place to machine compatibility. Um, but in the end, the way you could really reap the benefits of I think of this as like the longtail of the industrial revolution. The way you could reap these benefits was through redesigning the work object around the machine, not the other way around. Um, and I think that you you observe this dynamic pretty universally. Every time you have a new technological revolution, you have to redesign the content around the medium and not just the other way around. Like Steve Jobs talked about this in the context of TV like the first TV content was just uh talk shows like they still exist to this day, right? It's basically like you take people who are talking on radio and just put a camera before them and now you've got a talk show, right? The first movies were basically just recorded theater plays, right? It took us a very long time to to to to find the content that was native to the new medium. This is all to say I do think we are currently in the valley of mismatch of of AI where it's like we are using the old way of doing of doing things in the context of the new technological paradigm. Um and as a result you are leaving 90% of of the upside on the table when you do that. You really do have to redesign the workflows in order to reap the benefits of the new of the new technology. And I think it's it's really hard for people to do that. I think it's it's really hard to transform a business and to transform your own mindset. like I I habits die hard and I I do believe that the companies and the people that are going to lead the charge in this transformation are going to be very young people who are native to this new paradigm and they're going to be very young companies like I always say like another comparison here is is YouTube like what the internet did to media the guys who won at YouTube weren't legacy media players it wasn't CNN CNNBC Fox and whatnot that it was Mr. it was PewDiePie, right? It was like a random 14year-old in the middle of the US with no network and just like him and his webcam and his talent. Um, so I think it's going to be the exact same with AI and AI agents. I think the folks who are going to be able to really uh take advantage of this technology at its fullest are going to be native to this paradigm, they're going to be young and they're going to be weird. Frankly, I think I think the the the AI native company is going to seem quite alien to us. &gt;&gt; Well, I'm old, but I am weird. So maybe I have like 50% of a chance. Maybe I can keep up with the young people. I I'm really leaning into this idea. I like this a lot. I really like the comparison of the tomatoes. I think it'd be kind of fun to try just talk through what it would look like for this business for the leverage. I'd love to cuz I was playing with the platform. I was like, what can I automate? Um so much of this is Evan dependent. Um and so I'm curious, let's take the example of a newsletter company. How would you say, okay, this is this is how a newsletter company that's all in on AI agents, hopefully Lindy, everyone should be all in on Lindy, of course, &gt;&gt; always. &gt;&gt; Um, but what what would be different about it? &gt;&gt; Gosh, that's a good question. &gt;&gt; I I almost want to push back on the premise that newsletters are going to exist in that in that new world. &gt;&gt; I'm so sorry, Evan. &gt;&gt; No, no, you're good. &gt;&gt; It's kind of true, right? Like I'm talking to friends who have like really successful newsletters and they're like gosh I I don't know like why would you need a newsletter when you can just have an agent on the edge and like everyone's just got their own personal newsletter. So I think it may it may just be that. I think it may just be like, you know, I as a consumer, I'm I'm creating an agent and and basically I I don't even think of it as creating an agent. Like I'm just asking my AI like, "Hey, can you just send me a daily digest of stuff that I just like?" And then like every morning it sends you a thing and you can reply to it and you can be like, "Wow, wow, this is interesting. Like, can you tell me more about this?" And then like it just learns from your conversations and like day by day it makes it makes your content more and more interesting. And so in a way, by the way, this would be so wholesome because it would basically mean that you would no longer your attention would no longer be subject to centralized algorithms uh that are in the hands of a third party. You would own the algorithm, right? There would be this like sea of content there and the the selection, the filter would be pushed to the edge. &gt;&gt; Let me ask you a question. Do you have a podcast? &gt;&gt; Uh no. &gt;&gt; I'd like to come on to your new podcast and tell you your business is going to die. just uh just I I want to come join your show and tell you your company is stupid. Um &gt;&gt; you'll be just fine. &gt;&gt; No. So let me tell you uh let me tell you the rationale. I think yes, you could do that today, right? That you could use these AI agents today to write you and pull you a digest. And yet my experience has been that not that many people are doing it uh for real newsletters which like the classical tradition of a newsletter which was this person pens a letter sends it out to their uh to their audience. I think a lot of people are using it as newspaper replacements where it's this aggregated thing of just okay tell me what's important about like uh that doesn't feel all that protected but something that's deeply personal curated that's a reflection of someone's unique view in the world &gt;&gt; I I'm not super stressed about. Um but I I do deeply worry for my friends who have businesses that are just like news aggregators. Um well I I actually interesting example when we talk about what does a AI agent newsletter company look like is probably a lot of these my friends who run aggregated you know news aggregated newsletters. They'll use AI agents to scrape all the news write all the headlines. They'll train it every week to reflect their voice. They get a little bit more fine-tuned. And their actual job isn't newsletters. It's uh paid acquisition. How great can I make my paid acquisition? and I run this arbitrage between what I charge advertisers and what Meta charges me. Um, and that's what the actual that's what their newsletter business is when it in a world of AI agents. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; When you think about the capabilities of an AI agent today, the way I've classically thought about it is it can now take audio data which was previously really really hard to put into your computer in some ways. It can transcribe, it can record. Um, and then using the data in uh either the audio data or whatever data in your database, it can generate new objects for you. Um, and that sounds really simple when you say that, but that actually just basically everything. Um, do you ever get push back from the employees that you're selling to where like, wait, your agent can do what? Uh, that's my job, man. Uh do do you ever get feedback like that from customers? We're like, hey, this actually is automating too much and I'm not interested in deploying it at my company. &gt;&gt; Not directly, but yes, sometimes we get internal resistance to adoption. And I I I summize this is one of the reasons. I think there's a lot of other like excellent reasons. It's like it's hard to adapt. You've got to change your work processes. But yes, it's yeah, that happens. I think like the the person we're in direct tends to be the person one layer above. So they actually don't mind. Um that dynamic. Uh but but it does it does uh slow down adoption. &gt;&gt; You know two years ago you made this counterintuitive bet on AI agents. It was basically when you launched it was like you guys there was lang chain there was adept like you mentioned. I I'm curious what bets you're placing now that feel equally counterintuitive or do you feel like the or is the path set and you now know what you need to do. It's just executing on it. &gt;&gt; I think I think we're more executing at this point. I think I think we are like in the very you know again that that that mission of building the Macintosh of AI agents I think 3.0 is is like the first step of that like it's 1984 we've got we've got the first like I think this is like the clearest articulation of our vision from day one uh is 3.0 know and and now we'll just I think we just need to improve the product and and internally we talked about this like look no platform no product is ever fully done but sometimes they are like sometimes sometimes like the core feature set like look Uber press a button got it right like Dropbox like a full do that sinks like sure like there's thousands of employees in these companies that are like sort of busy um but but at some point the core feature set is done I think we'll we're almost there I think we've got the 90 95% of the the core building blocks that we need for this platform and I think there's going to be decades worth of iteration after that. And by the way, that is not to say like I mean iteration matters a great deal. Like if you compare like the Ford Model T to like a Toyota Corolla from 2024, a huge difference, right? Like these things are just totally different objects, right? But that's basically just iteration. And so that that's just 100 years worth of iteration. And that's that's the journey that we're beginning. &gt;&gt; So now that you're close to the iteration stage, what is the what's the threats that keep you up at night? you know, when you're tossing and turning in bed thinking about your company, what's the thing that that you're worried about most? &gt;&gt; You know, look, frankly, it's it's it's execution. Um, I I always like watch out on the landscapes like it's a champer, you know, who coined the term creative destruction, who also said this other thing that I love, which is like every successful business is is built on ever shifting sands and I think it feels more true in AI than in any other industry. It's like your build and I'm I'm always watching out for like the unknown unknown like what are some wrong assumptions that we made that are possibly buried very deeply into the product and into the business uh that may be the undoing of this business and any funer in any category is going to tell you that like what keeps you up at night. I think it's always this like paranoid you know keeping your ear very close to the ground and and watching from every angle and and just watching out for for trouble. &gt;&gt; Are you staffing differently with the company? How do you staff not that many entry- level people would be my guess because you just do so much with Lindy agents? Is that right? &gt;&gt; Not necessarily because like I to my point earlier like I have found entry- level people are more able to adopt these these innovations and so like I love young people. I think like oh came I &gt;&gt; I'm going to clip that. That's just going to be the top of the episode. I love young people. That's that's we got it. &gt;&gt; Um, no, I mean it's true, you know, like I think it's really powerful to to pair like and and we we do that. Like I think it's really powerful to have this like pairing of like really senior people with like really really younger people cuz like the younger people like the bringing like that energy and that innovation and all of that and and then there's like the the more senior people to like anchor them down to reality and and and and like make them benefit from that experience. No, I think like really the way we've changed staffing is like we've got less of it. like we we we punch above our weight in terms of revenue per employee right now and uh our investors notice that and they're like how come and we're like well we're using Lindy a whole lot like we it's observed how much we use Mindy like we've got thousands like literally thousands of of lindies just for the company um so it's just it's just like half of the company runs on AI agents we are actually tracking our token spend compared to our uh payroll spend and right now token spend is still like much lower per spent but the lines will cross at some point like we'll you can see them you can see the graph and you know it's coming &gt;&gt; wow uh how many how long till it it crosses &gt;&gt; you know that's a good question we should like project that my hunch is in two years or so I think they'll cross &gt;&gt; wow do you have a sense for I think I now I'm betraying my lack of knowledge but I if I remember right Google is like at one point was about a mil 1 to two million in employees um in revenue. Um and that feels like most most of the time people shoot like a really well-run technology business might get one to two maybe maybe three if you're exceptional. Um do you feel like that's similar that that number can just go up and if so by how much? Um in in the AI era? Yeah, it's tough for me to answer this question because like yes, when you think about it from first principles, it would seem that this number could go up at least in like some outlier cases and and we are seeing that with with like the companies that are exploding. Um in the long term at equilibrium though I I wish we had like an economist right now like no Smith should be here because I feel like he would make he would make some like complicated point about like comparative advantage and actually you know like margins are compressed down to zero because of perfect competition and actually you know like that that number like reaches some state of equilibrium or like you you you're actually like breathing rarer and rarer air as you as you get up there. But like yeah like technologically if you reason about it from those principles it would seem like you you would be able to push that number way higher. Yeah, I think what's likely is things will push way higher for X number of period, you know, but the reality over Y it will come back down. It's just there's this there's a big delta right now between those people that have that mindset of like I can do things differently than I used to versus old school SAS operators um who just like okay I I know exactly what my OTE is got to be. I know my ratios and that's all just kind of out of whack. &gt;&gt; Totally. I was watching some of your previous interviews and reading how you've talked about Lindy in the past. It's, you know, you said that, hey, we might in a few years just have this general knowledge worker um with AI. I'm curious like what does that if that's true, if we just are able to have this general knowledge worker, how does Lindy fit into that? Because it seems like Lindy is like we're going to have a bunch of little sub agents that do a specific task. How does it work? How does like Lindy fit into that vision? Well, I think hopefully Lindy is the universal knowledge worker. Um, how it fits into that is are you inquiring about like Lindy in particular or like the value of having an agent builder platform in that world? &gt;&gt; I guess the question is ultimately there's this idea of like I hire a remote employee and instead of a person in my Zoom box, it's an AI agent which is this sci-fi vision of the future which Lindy doesn't quite seem to be. It's more like I hire there might be one little head that appears in the Zoom box, but there's a thousand little sub aents underneath who actually do all the tasks that that one general knowledge worker represents. And so I guess what I'm trying to better understand is like are maybe this is just a question about AGI of like at what point do we hit AGI and if AGI occurs to what happens to Lindy? But that's I think a shitty question. We could try to answer it. You know, &gt;&gt; I don't think I don't think it's a shitty question at all. No, I I think that the question about like in an AGI world and this is also something we talk about quite a lot internally like in an AGI world like do you still have multi- aent systems and I do I I I strongly believe the answer is yes for a lot of reasons number one parallelism obviously like you need you can't have just like one giant GPU spitting out like trillions of tokens per second like you need you need to like parallel track so that's number one number two and I forgot who it is who who told me that that image but I really liked where you can think of large language models as giant objects, just so huge objects, like trillions of parameters. And when you prompt the the the language model, you're effectively shining a flashlight through this giant forest of an object, right? And depending on like the angle, like you get a totally different projection on the other end and you effectively get a different model. So like the prompt is effectively like a different model. And I believe and this is one of these insights that I think seems very obvious when you read the literature that people don't quite believe you today but I believe in like a year or two uh the labs are going to offer very lightweight simple fast ways to you can think of it as like a fine tune of a model but like are you familiar with a Laura? &gt;&gt; Mhm. Yeah. I think you're gonna be able to do like a Laura of like a GPT5 in like a second, you know, and it'll cost you like 10 cents or something like that um in in a year or two. Um so you're literally going to get different models and these different models are going to have different codes, different personalities and in the push and pull between these different models, you're going to have emergent behaviors that come out from the interaction of these models. Uh so for example again in in the context of this Lindy build release that we're pushing now um you know you've got a Lindy engineer that builds what you ask it to build and then and this is the magical part about it is like you've got a Lindy QA engineer that actually uses computer use to take the output of the Lindy engineer tests it around try everything and it's got a very specific prompt this QA engineer for what does it entail doing good QA how do you do good QA and and and the rules and and so forth and then it sends it work back to the software engineer for like if if any bugs were found. So you can't really have the same kind of quality emerging behaviors uh with with single leg agent systems. &gt;&gt; I like the idea of the flashlight. I've always thought maybe that the trees uh are actually just like experts just screaming out their knowledge. It's like ah I know this, you know, it's that's a that's maybe &gt;&gt; terrifying. Yeah, it's a forest of screaming scientists and that's what a large language model is. Um, and then we asked this forest of screaming scientists to be our AI girlfriends and boyfriends and we're just torturing it. That's uh that's what we've built. Um, I think maybe to wrap up. I think a year ago, uh, was the last time we talked, we were emailing back and forth about this, but you have talked in public a lot about your views on like AI safety, on how there is a a real dangerous path that we're potentially heading down. Where are you at with that today? Are you still a believer in like AI safety is a thing, it's not a thing? Um, are you an adherent of the Berkeley rationalists? You know, where do you land? I'm I'm deeply concerned like deeply deeply deeply concerned. Um I think I think I'm I'm even more concerned in a way because like I I catch myself I am less viscerally concerned than I was two years ago. Intellectually I'm just as concerned but I'm less viscerally concerned. And I I suspect that there's a weird psychological thing that happens. I actually I I know that for a fact because there are a lot of studies that find that this is the same thing for animals. Like if you put an animal in a situation of danger, it runs away. If you put it in a situation of danger and it can't run away, it doesn't try. And this is actually very like rational behavior like evolutionarily like evolution tweaked this behavior because it's like why expense your energy for nothing. Like you might need it once the danger actually comes like you're going to need it to fight. So like don't like just stay stay put. And from the from the point of view of the animal obviously like this behavior is hardcoded into into it by evolution. And so it doesn't like this is not like obviously a rational thing that they think about. They don't think, "Ah, I'm gonna stay put in case the danger arrives." Like, I assume it feels like a weird sense of calm in the middle of the storm. Like, I'm just gonna stay put, you know, and and that's how evolution made them stay put. It's just by having them feel that calm. Um, so I think we're in that situation right now. And I think um I I can't do anything about it. I truly I hate that, but like I think of myself as like a pretty high agency person, but like look, I'm going to use my platform. I'm going to shout it from the rooftops. Like we need to do something. Um, and that's something I don't exactly know what it is. Um, but yeah, deeply concerned and and even more concerned because I'm concerned intellectually, but less visceral than I used to be. &gt;&gt; The analogy you told me once is that you're building an AI company is like you being the nuclear reactor business, but you're trying to shout about the danger of nuclear weapons. Um, is that does that still uh feel right? Does that analogy correct? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, I think so. &gt;&gt; Yeah. in a future episode. Well, I don't know if it's going to be a future episode or if we'll publish it before this one comes out, but I'm interviewing Nate Sores, who has uh like one of the big leaders in the AI safety research community. And I came in assuming I'm too stupid to understand the arguments. Uh you know, I'm just like, I'm not as bright as these people. Uh but whether you believe the AI safety arguments or not, it's interesting to see how viscerally and deeply people feel it. you know, like I like there's this look of existentialis uh dread that people have when they talk about this stuff and that in itself is concerning. You know, I I I listen I've watched these podcasts. I talk to people in the community and I'm just like, man, man, you are stressed about this and you are scared. Um &gt;&gt; they are scared and these people are not rando tinfoil hat people. I mean like that shouldn't that is like an argument an appeal to authority like that shouldn't weigh too heavily on on people's evaluations of the risk but like look it says something like yes like I think it's something like three out of the five top AI researchers in the world including Ilas and Jeff Hinton are deeply deeply concerned Elon Musk is deeply deeply concerned pretty much all the heads of the labs are deeply concerned like including Dario from from anthropic is is on the record for saying like yes this is this is troubling like Sam has obviously this quote where he's like if this goes wrong like this is out to all of us. Like OpenAI was founded from day one out of that concern. Like yeah, this is not a weird bunch of tinfoil hats living in the woods that are concerned. It's like it's serious people. Yeah. I I I would draw a large difference between the scientists versus the um the founders because I feel like a lot of the times they use that as a uh this product is very serious. It's very serious. Please buy my subscription. It's so serious. You should get a subscription to buy product. &gt;&gt; I'm sorry. I totally disagree with that take. I it's like the whole like bootleger versus like this is this would this would like since when do since when do founders go like oh my product make us the end of the world and is so very dangerous everyone please buy it like this this would go counter to the entire history of business when you look at automotive manufacturers like the history of business has been punctuated with funders fervently resisting any attempt at uh regulation or any attempt to portray their invention as even remotely dangerous. like the the cigarette industry had doctors on billboards saying I like Lucas Trike cuz like the smoke is smoother, right? The automotive industry was resisting self safety belts like what's the downside of safety belts, right? Um I I don't think so. I think I think if anything the fact that they are willing to speak against their their incentive as I am by the way it's not comfortable for me to be the founder of an AI company and talk about the AI risk because even if I position myself as a nuclear plant and and these things are nuclear weapons like even if you if you if you accept this framing look I'm still downstream of the same supply chain and so it would hurt me if the supply chain was hurt and yet I I would if you if you gave me a button today to pause this entire supply chain for 10 years I would press this button so fast Um uh so no, if anything, I think it should I think it should convince people even more that that these people are actively speaking out against their own self-interest. &gt;&gt; I think that's a really interesting place uh for us to wrap up today. Um I I'm I'm really excited about Lindy. I when I do these prep for these things, a lot of times I'll look at the product and I'm like, "Yeah, cool." Um but this was one of those where I went, "Oh yeah, let me buy it." Uh and uh let me see how I can change how I think about my business. So, if people wanted to learn more or uh to find out more about your product, where should they go? &gt;&gt; Yeah, lindy.ai/evan. Uh I I don't want to promise stuff because I always get this wrong, but like you're going to get a discount of some sort. &gt;&gt; Oh, okay. Hey, I didn't even know that coming into this. Hey, you get a discount if you if you made it to the end of this conversation, you were treated with a reward. &gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. And this is why I get in trouble because I just sort of make it up on the fly and then the team is like scrambling like, "Fuck, now we have to like build the thing." But, uh, sure, why not? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, sure. Why not? Um, all right. Well, thanks so much and we'll talk later. [Music]
