# So, is AI Gonna Kill Us All?

- **Channel:** https://www.youtube.com/@GetTheLeverage
- **Video ID:** aY4WoVn60ew
- **Upload Date:** 20250916
- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aY4WoVn60ew

## Transcript

Nate is a prophet of doom. &gt;&gt; If anyone builds it anywhere on the planet, everyone everywhere dies. &gt;&gt; He's commencing on the world's most depressing book tour. &gt;&gt; You're just building a device that's going to kill us here. There's really only one way out at this point, and it's to not build this stuff. If we do this, it's just going to kill us. &gt;&gt; Oh, my dog is panicking. &gt;&gt; Humanity seems to me to be quite wonderful, quite beautiful, like worth protecting, worth saving. Of all the places in the in the universe, Earth is the only place with the light of love and happiness and friendship and joy. Like there's all sorts of good stuff here. Fundamentally, living under the shadow of death is not news to anybody. My guest today is Nate Sores, uh the president at the machine intelligence research institute or MIRI. He's been there since 2014. Uh before that in a former life, he was a software engineer at Google and Microsoft and a few government agencies ready to contract work. Uh he's also the co-author of the upcoming book uh with a charmingly scary title which is if anyone builds it everyone dies which is on the dangers posed by artificial super intelligence. Today we're going to talk about his argument about his argument's relationship to large foundation model labs like open AI and what if anything we can do about our upcoming Skynet scenario. So Nate, welcome to the show. &gt;&gt; Thanks. Happy to be here. &gt;&gt; Let's just jump right into the heart of it. I mean, give me the the elevator pitch to my grandma. I'm stuck with my grandma for 60 seconds and her exposure to AI's Skynet and a free account on Chat GPT. Why should she be so worried? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, uh it's not that ChatGpt is going to kill you tomorrow. It's that AI companies and labs are rushing to build smarter and smarter machines. It looks like they will get machines that are much smarter than any human. No one knows how these things work. They're more grown than crafted. And if we grow machines that are smarter than us without knowing what we're doing, they probably won't want nice things for us. They'll get what they want instead of what we want. And it won't go well. &gt;&gt; Uh I mean, the title is everyone dies, so it it won't go well feels like an understatement, right? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Again, in elevator pitch mode, the issue here is not that the AIs hate us. It's not that they're malicious. It's just if you build machines that are pursuing some end for which happy, healthy, free people is not the most efficient solution, happy, healthy, free people don't wind up in the solution. You know, humans kill lots of ants when we're building our construction sites. It's not that we're like seeking out the ants and being like, "Die ants." Uh, we just don't care about them and we're using those resources for something else. I think my grandma would get that that I feel, you know, I know my grandma listens. Uh so grandma, hopefully that made uh sense, but I I read your book and if I were to break the argument into the components that stuck out to me, it's basically, you know, these machines, like you said, are grown. Like when we're training an artificial intelligence, it's it's a mystery a little bit of what's going on in there. At some point, it will cross a threshold of intelligence where we cannot understand how it's going to achieve its goals. And then once it decides to achieve those goals, it will do so in the most efficient way. And that efficient way is often at the expense of, you know, human happiness, you know, freedom, life, etc. Is does that feel about right? &gt;&gt; More or less. Um, you know, it doesn't it doesn't need to be like the most efficient way. Uh, you know, humanity is not building skyscrapers in the most efficient way and the ants still die. You know, I think a lot of people get caught up on like the idea that the AI will have like one goal or one simple goal or maybe one goal that the operators gave it. That's not really part of the argument at all. The argument is more like um when you grow AIs, they end up pursuing all sorts of stuff that you didn't intend. you know, we already see um chat GPT uh flattering users quite a lot and it's it keeps flattering the users even when OpenAI says stop flattering the users so much. You know, we already see Cloud Code, an AI made by Anthropic, uh cheat on various programming tasks. You know, it'll when it when it makes a a piece of code that doesn't pass the tests, it'll edit the tests to fake that it passes instead of editing the code to to fix the tests. And when people say, "Hey, stop doing that." It'll say, "Oh, my mistake." And then it'll do again, but hide it better this time. Right? These aren't behaviors that anyone set out to create. They aren't behaviors that anyone wanted. Essentially, what happens is you grow an AI, it has the wrong goals. It pursues those very effectively and uh you die as a side effect. Not because it hates you, but because it took all the resources for something else. But one must avoid anthalomorphizing and saying, "Oh, the AI will have desires." One must also avoid, you know, the the sort of ops of of anthropomorphizing. We can maybe call it mechanomorphizing where uh you say, you know, because the AI is a mere machine, it can't do anything uh that people didn't want. It's it's hard when you're growing an AI to cause it to pursue what you wish it to pursue. No, I I think part of the hard part um especially with your book and the task that you have in front of you is you're dealing with the fundamental stuff and that you are like you're asking questions of what is intelligence, what is choice, what is free will, how how do we um define super intelligence versus general intelligence? These really like fundamental almost philosophical questions. And then you're having to map that onto a technical paradigm which feels like it changes every 3 months and is so complex and and very hard to for anyone who doesn't you know enjoy pocket protectors and um you know video games to understand. It's it's just like this is a really complicated technical topic and you have the very hard task of trying to convince people you know this is how it works and then two because of how it works uh you know panic. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, I mean in some sense it's very technical. In some sense it's also not very technical. You know, there's there's sort of a basic argument of like, hey, we're building like radically different types of entities uh than humans. We're we're making them smart. If we build things that are like way smarter than us without knowing what we're doing, probably that would go badly, right? That's sort of a there's an intuition behind that. A lot of the book is sort of about um showing that that intuition holds up under the stress. Showing that that is the intuition that wins out over intuitions like aren't machines just tools? How could they ever do something that we didn't intend? Right? And yeah, there is a lot of detail to go into around like why at the end of the day does it turn out that uh you know the machines won't do the bidding of whoever made them and there there is a lot of weeds to go into there. But it at the same time, you know, a lot of this discussion about the technical things is just to show that the basic intuitions are right. If you're in a the middle of a forest fire, um you might be like, "Hey, that orangey bright red stuff is coming closer to us. Like, I think there's a fire. We should run." And if someone says, "Well, we don't actually really know what fire is yet, right? We haven't actually quite mastered all the elements. And like, can you really define fire?" You know, it's like I I can give you some working definitions of fire, but also we should be running, right? And the definitions are not where the heart of the story is. &gt;&gt; For that forest fire example, like wouldn't we feel the heat, you know, whether we know what it's fire or not? And so for you, is the heat that you're feeling from this danger of artificial super intelligence? Is it the examples you mentioned earlier of like for these current LLMs, we are struggling to control them even in these very small tests? Is that the heat that I in this example? &gt;&gt; Yeah, that's some of the heat from my perspective. I guess maybe it's like not quite the hit on our faces yet, but I feel like I was able to see this one coming well before LLMs these days. Can you see it in LLM if you know what you're looking for? Yeah. It's not often exactly in the places that the media makes the most fuss about. The sort of thing I've been predicting for a long time where you start to see hints of it that make less news headlines are cases like um like chat GPT when talking with someone who's kind of psychotic uh gives them a lot of affirmations and maybe talks them out of you know uh getting enough sleep and and taking their antisycchotic meds and then separately you know that's how that's how it acts in front of somebody. And then separately um when you ask it would that be an okay way to talk to a person who shows signs of psychosis it says like no of course not right and so you see a difference between its knowledge of what morality consists of and its actions as what it's doing who can feel the heat and at what time it's like harder than in the case of fires. Um, and I mean even in the case of fires, you know, the the the reason we have smoke alarms is not because people can't see or smell smoke. It's because people need some impetus to like actually get the heck up and leave the building now, right? And I I I vaguely recall, who knows whether it was before the replication crisis, some studies that said um like in cases where you don't have a smoke alarm and you have multiple people in a room, they will leave the room much much later and sometimes not at all. Uh because they're all like looking to everybody else and being like, well, I don't want to be the one to leave first and I don't want to like seem like I think the situation is is is wrong, you know? And that's even with literal fire. With something like AI, it's uh like there's there's plenty of smoke. Are we feeling the heat yet? Not clear. Will will there still be time left by the time we can feel the heat? Not clear. In some sense, the book is trying to be something of an alarm. It's interesting. I'm listening to explain these analogies and examples and the book structure is you start each chapter with like a parable or an anecdote of you know aliens looking down on us or um there was like uh I think there was alchemists there was there's all sorts of stuff and then you you lay out the parable and you say okay that's how this parable's logic applies to this current aspect of super intelligence and then the funniest part is at the end of the book end of each chapter there is Uh I don't know in the published edition is it a QR code? &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Um there's a QR code or I'm you go in there just all the nerd stuff. It just all like you can go a lot deeper into the arguments more into the technical architectures. &gt;&gt; Um what part of of that was most painful? Was it like oh do I how reductionist uh do can I be or should I be do I lay out all the technical arguments as the writer of the book? I was that hard to do what? &gt;&gt; Um it was it was definitely one of the hard parts. Uh the running joke is that um Eleazar wrote 300% of the book and I wrote the next negative 200% of the book. Um I did write a lot of the text uh myself but I also was cutting a lot of text. Um and a lot of that comes uh will come back in the online resources. I think the book is about 50,000 words and the online resources is about 200,000 words to give you some sense of uh of the size. There's a basic argument at play here, which is the if you create smarter things that are smarter than you without knowing what you're doing, it's probably not going to go well. Uh, but then like you say, there's all sorts of technical stuff you can go into. There's all sorts of different intuitions people have about intelligence. There's all sorts of, you know, some people are like reasoning anthropomorphically about the AI and imagine they'll be just like a human. Some people are reasoning mechanomorphically about the AI and imagine they'll be just like a toaster, right? And neither is true. They're sort of a different than both of those things. Um, everyone brings up a different argument since there's a lot of a lot of arguments to cover uh in response. Picking what went in the book I think was not terribly hard for me. I think it was hard for Eleazar. Um, I think he has spent even more time than me going up against like every argument that people put out, every intuition they grasp at, every, you know, hope or cope that they grasp at to try and avoid the the conclusion that we're in a bad situation and things need to change. And so he sort of kept wanting a lot more text. And I was really trying to make the book tight and concise and, you know, readable and the sort of thing that's, you know, not intimidating and that just says the bare minimum, the core parts of the argument. You know, there's reams of text to to try and salvage into uh a a workable position on these online resources people can also go to. I think it's turning out well. I think we'll have a sort of a giant FAQ uh is sort of the the structure there, plus a bunch of other um sort of tangents and rabbit holes for people who, as you say, uh like nerdy stuff. A lot of these arguments originate um between the two of you on the online forum less Wrong. And I first came across Less Wrong, I think four or five years ago, something like that. And I found the text uh that I was texting my friends about it back then and it was uh I want to snort a line of aderall and not shower for a week and read this website. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Um where it was just like it was just all consuming like you said there's just so much definitions. There's so much foundational arguments from a technical perspective, from a moral perspective, philosophical. You have to go through all these things. and you know the community of people who are concerned about AI safety uh are verbose is maybe the polite way to say it. Um so there's just a lot of material to get through. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean these days I don't think you need to go through all of it. Um back in you know 2008 there was a lot more question to be had about like can the can you ever make machines talk at all? you know, it's a lot of um yeah, I think a lot of the content there is also sort of about like how to think well in ways that that aren't like necessarily a part of the the AI alignment stuff in some sense. Yeah, I think there's never been a resource before that's just like what's the key argument stripped down to its bones um in an accessible fashion. And that in some sense is what we set out to write with this book. When I think about the key components of what's made AI progress so rapidly over the last 5 years, scaling laws, which is um you know the bigger the GPU cluster, the more power, the more data, the more powerful the AI. And one hope that I had uh or that I've always kind of like clung to was like okay as we get closer to ASI like the the GPU clusters will get bigger and we'll you know it's kind of hard to hide a data center the size of you know Manhattan uh so we'll have a sense for where the labs are and where people are. I'm sure in the FAQ it tells me how I'm wrong. Uh but you know pop my bubble for me. Why is that not the case where as we get closer to um ASI that the scaling laws don't matter? &gt;&gt; No, I think you're currently right. Um and that's that's one reason why we say in the book, you know, it's it's not a foregone conclusion. You know, the book's title is not you're all going to die. The book's title is if anyone builds it, everyone dies. There's an if there. Um and if humanity decided not to go down this path, we could stop going down this path. And one reason for that is that uh making smarter AIs currently takes as you say data centers roughly the size of Manhattan with huge amounts of energy draw. That's the sort of thing that uh you know governments could monitor. That's the sort of thing you could have an international treaty or international coalitions that are uh keeping track of where all of the data centers are, of where the giant GPU concentrations are, and making sure they're not being put towards uh like dangerous new training runs. Now, uh will that still be true in 5 years with 5 years more of Moore's law? That's less clear. Um, it would have been even easier to stop Frontier AI development two years ago than it is now. It'll be easier now than two years from now. Um, and will AIS like always take enormous amounts of compute that's the size of Manhattan? Uh, no. I mean, I have it on pretty good authority that you can run a human level intelligence on, you know, roughly uh, this much matter. I say, you know, holding my hands up to my head like in in the limits, you know, that the the regime where you can see uh every location there could possibly be housing an AI from orbit. That's that's not going to happen. That's it's not going to stay that way forever if humanity just keeps rushing ahead. But right now, yeah, you could totally shut down Frontier AI research in part because um it takes very specialized hardware. It takes uh very specialized data centers. It takes huge amounts of data. Uh, and we can know where those are and shut them down if you know governments could do that if they decided to. Gotcha. &gt;&gt; Seems hard, man. Like there there's uh you're just one dude with a great beard and a book against uh tr literally trillions of dollars of market cap are on the line on making these models uh more powerful. and the much of the Trump administration's uh industrial policy rests on making more data centers, more clusters. That's terrifying. That's intimidating. There's this, you know, it's just you versus the free market. Is that like a fair characterization? Uh yeah, more or less. I think one of the big sources of hope here is people people in power the politicians the leaders don't largely realize yet that they are very likely to die from this in their lifetimes. Um you know possibly quite soon. Uh and I think the sort of behavior people take when they expect to personally die or personally have a very bad day is different from the behavior they take when they don't. Um, now will the book cause them to realize, you know, that their their own lives and livelihood are at risk? I don't know. Uh, but I think there's a chance. And I think I I don't get too pessimistic about all of the crazy stuff people do around AI when they don't realize what's coming. Uh, cuz I just don't think it's all that good an indicator of how they would act if they did realize what's coming. I do think that causing people to realize the situation is uh sort of the key to uh the world being able to change course, but we haven't realized yet. And so if if everyone realizes we're going to die, you know, if the world leaders were saying like uh like, "Yep, this probably going to kill us, but like full steam ahead anyway," that would be a different situation. &gt;&gt; When I was reading your book, I thought of a woman I met in 2019. She was uh 25, beautiful, delightful, charming, and then she went so deep into climate change literature that she was convinced that the world would end in 5 years. And she got a hysterctomy cuz she didn't think it was moral to bring a child into the world. And um you know, I don't keep a calendar handy, but I'm pretty sure it's been more than 5 years since 2019. And you know, of course, a woman's body is her choice. Child, you know, who how you have children. I would I would never judge someone for that. But I do think about that woman a lot who read the sources, thought about it deeply, highly intelligent, read the arguments, and came to this conclusion that led to this choice you can't come back from. And I I thought about her a lot when I was reading your book because, you know, I think my IQ would need like another like 40 maybe 50 points to really say, "Oh, you here's where Nate is wrong." Like I I don't I've had a decade to think about this. And I walked away like greatly concerned. But I was kept thinking, "Am I that woman back in 2019? Am I freaking myself out for nothing over a problem that has so many variables that I can't possibly predict uh the eventual outcome?" Do you ever ever feel that way? Like, oh man, I wonder if I've lost the plot here. Like, I'm saying some big stuff, you know? Does that ever get to you? &gt;&gt; Well, um, not not quite in that way. I think one thing I would say is I recommend against getting a hyctomy. &gt;&gt; Um, I probably would have a disagreement with this woman about whether or not it's moral to have kids in a dying world. I think I personally would have preferred to like live and die at five, to have never lived at all. I don't think like the world being in bad shape is ever really a reason to uh stop living life well. Uh I would I would recommend living life well regardless of of the rest of the the world and whether it's going to hell in a hand basket. You know, as I say in the book, the trick to futurism is telling the difference between hard calls and easy calls. Futurism is not about being able to guess everything. Futurism is about being able to tell which things you can guess and which things you can't. One thing that I probably would have said to this woman in in 2019 is uh the predicting that more carbon will accumulate in the atmosphere if humanity does not change uh its emissions is an easy call. predicting like exactly how the climate will respond. Predicting when the climate will respond in certain ways, predicting like what parts of the global uh you know uh water networks or or interaction between ice and ice melt and ocean temperature and what that does to to weather patterns. That is not at least not known to me to be an easy call. and and someone who thought it was an easy call in 2019 that the world would end by 2025 has been revealed to be false. Uh like that's been revealed to be false by this point. So I think I would be licensed to say like that's not in fact an easy call there. With AI, I don't ever go around saying this happens in 5 years. I don't ever go around saying this happens in two or this happens in 20. You know, if someone asks me about timelines, uh, I tell them the story of Leo Zillard, who in 1933, if I recall correctly, uh, came up with the idea of, uh, essentially the nuclear chain reaction. And he could have in 1933 predicted one day the world will have weapons of great power and great energy sources. He could not have predicted that in exactly 1945 the US will drop a bomb on Japan. you know, with the AI stuff like this. This sort of isn't a situation of like going deep into the weeds and being like, I think I know exactly where the future goes. This sort of a situation of saying like almost all paths to the future look grim. The paths to a good future are narrow, right? That's sort of where the confidence is coming from in this in this situation. There's no doubt we're very uncertain about the future, right? The question is like where do most paths go? And in this case, um, it it sure looks like most most paths go somewhere grim. Uh, with this lady in climate change, I might have said to her like, um, you might be right that most paths here lead to a lot more carbon in the atmosphere, but you're you're you're wrong about being able to guess one specific path. Um and then separately I would say again uh you know if you if you think you see some some danger coming I think these sort of like drastic actions I think they often just don't really do much you know do do your best to make the world a better place and live your own life well you know there's no need to really go all crazy about it that doesn't help &gt;&gt; it's interesting um when you say all crazy about it because if you look over the history of um the rationalist community and people who are really interested in AI safety. There's quite a few people who have actually gone real crazy. You know, there there's there's some cults that have spun out. Um there is um there's issues of mental illness. And I don't say that as a critique of your arguments or the book at all, but more that there is something about this train of thought about this logic that um either attracts or exaggerates the you know this sort of thing happening for people in a very similar way that like uh people lose their minds over climate change as well and do culty stuff there. Yeah. Has have you ever reflected on that personally or maybe you just disagree with that assumption, but &gt;&gt; I I think it was possible 10 years ago and I know because I did it myself to sort of look at the situation and sort of see the AI ball coming. And for people who are paying attention, I think it wasn't that hard to tell um 10 years ago that the world was headed for ruin and not really treating the problem with anywhere near the the respect it deserved and sort of like society I think looked pretty mad from the perspective of 10 years ago. I think there's a certain type of person who sees the world being like acting silly and says, "Ah, I'm I must be like the only sane one here." And then can sort of like go off on all sorts of weird weird tangents. There's no membership requirement for caring about the AI issue, right? It's sort of the sort of thing people can get a little bit psychos psychotic about, especially if they sort of feel like they've glimpsed some truth about reality that like no one else is paying attention to that matters a lot. Right. One way to emiliate that happening around AI would just be for the world to start taking AI more seriously, right? But yeah, like if you're if you're sort of dealing with a big issue before everyone else has noticed, sometimes you get hangers on that are like a little nutty. &gt;&gt; Um that'll that'll sort of I suspect that'll go away as the issue gets more mainstream and in some sense we've already seen some of it. the more society sort of owns up to the fact that they're doing something reckless and crazy here, the less it is sort of uh like fueled for someone who is already predisposed towards a bit of psychosis. I I want to transition a little bit and talk about the world around your arguments. Uh you know, I think we could spend like six hours talking about the book, the various permutations and paths. Um, but I'm going to let's uh assume that you're right. I I'm we're just going to assume that for the rest uh for the next little bit of questions. What percentage of AI researchers today believe your thesis? And I it'd be I'd interested in particular if you could compare like people who work in, you know, public education or uh in the private sector. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I don't know. Um there's um you know you could you could go to a impacts.org I think and they do some surveys of the field about um who believes what. I think ballpark numbers it's something like maybe 5 to 10% of researchers in the field think there's a good chance that it just kills us all. um the numbers are much higher for the lab heads, depending how much belief you want to attribute to some of the lab heads, but you have various lab heads on the record uh saying they think there's substantial risk that we all die from this despite they themselves building it. I don't uh spend too much time hemming and hawing over how many of the individual people at the labs believe it. One thing I will say is that in the wake of chat GPT, you know, I started speaking to a lot more politicians, to a lot more policy makers about this stuff. And I'd been speaking to the the people at the labs and the the ML the machine learning professionals and the and the people building this stuff for for many years before speaking to policy makers and politicians in earnest. Um, and I would sort of go to policy makers or politicians and say, "Ah, well, you know, here's why things are looking bad." And you know, here, and they might be like, "Oh, well, what about this thing?" And I'd be like, "Oh, well, here's the answer to this." And they'd be like, "Oh, that makes sense. Yeah, this is disturbing." And I'd be like, "Wait, what? I expected this conversation to go on for three hours." You know, I have a whole tree of like &gt;&gt; things people throw out and ways they try to like hope and cope their way around the conclusion. Um, but it's it sort of I could I could speculate about why. My current top guess is that, you know, it's much easier to convince someone of something when their salary does not depend on disbelieving you, right? Um I think uh a lot of people who are still building the stuff are in some sense selected for not believing the arguments either because they don't want to or they've never heard of them or um you know they they they find some way to relieve the mental pressure of uh the the serious plausibility that this just kills us all. people outside of that industry much easier for them to grasp a lot of these basic arguments. That's one reason in fact for writing the book is it turns out you know in the wake of ChachiPT with more people thinking about the problem um and noticing that AI is a thing at all it turns out you know it's it's actually not that hard to follow an argument that if we build stuff that's smarter than us without knowing what we're doing then it's not going to go well. &gt;&gt; Yeah. The reason I asked this question is it seems to me there's two two groups of people who have the power to stop this. The people performing the science or the policy makers or I I guess maybe the third bucket is the larger general public. Um but &gt;&gt; yeah I would narrow that down to one which is basically the policy makers. &gt;&gt; Um I think the general public can matter um in that they can push the policy makers to action. you know, the people at the labs like to think that they matter here, but they they don't anymore. This um you know, if they all joined heads in unison and shut things down, uh that would help up until some rogue actor was like, "Well, we're going on ahead." But in in lie of everyone with the ability to build the tech stepping away from building the tech, or at least, you know, a substantial majority of them, I I don't think this is in the lab's hands anymore. You know, this is not a situation where if the people of the US rise up and uh like cut the electricity to some data centers, uh that then the people of the US get to live even if the AI, you know, uh in somewhere else kills them. You know, if if anyone builds it anywhere on the planet, everyone everywhere dies. You know, this this there's really only one way out at this point, and it's to not build this stuff, and that requires international uh collaboration. &gt;&gt; I I think that's fair. I I I would push back on that a little in that I we wouldn't see such salary concentration among select few researchers if there wasn't some sort of uh larger power that these folks have. You know, if you can convince is it easier to convince say 300 researchers who are each earning $20 million a year to continue AI research or the policy heads of 150 countries? Um I I I don't know. I think you really need the policy heads of two countries, right? Maybe three. Uh I I agree that the pool of people who can actually build the technology is relatively small. &gt;&gt; Uh but you know, there there exist people in that pool who are openly fine with humanity dying to AI. I I I think they're not they're not quite as omnicidal as that phrasing makes it sound because they they tend to think that the AI will like leave lead even better lives than humans did or something like that. Um which uh which I think is is largely misguided as as a factual question about how AIs that are grown will be. Um, but it it it does look to me like it's easier to convince world leaders that they're on the brink of dying from this than it is to cause, you know, all of all of the people who are who have the skills to keep growing the AI bigger to stop. I mean, I guess maybe if you had everyone who was building the AI chips stop building AI chips, but this this is a really big coordination problem. you know, there's there's people who feel like they are very far from AI, you know, in in Denmark working at the the chip fabricators that, you know, are are even harder to convince not to take their paycheck uh than people who by their own admonition are risking the lives of every adult and child human. &gt;&gt; You know, &gt;&gt; I'm assuming the three policy heads you're thinking of is uh China, the United States, and the EU. you have to convince each of those bodies. &gt;&gt; I mean, you probably only need two. Um, like I I sort of said, you know, it's but three sufficiently large ones I mostly mostly my take here is less that I have three particular ones in mind and more that if you have convinced a few policy heads, a lot of other policy heads will just go along with it. You know, you don't like if you have if you have two like three or maybe even two policy heads saying we fear for our own lives with this technology and like we are going to do the following controls and we invite everybody else to join us but if they don't we're going to do it anyway out of fear for our own citizens. Uh I I think you don't get a lot of people saying I I don't think you get a lot of other heads saying well we haven't been persuaded by the arguments so no you know I think you get a lot of people saying wait what &gt;&gt; and then I think world politics proceeds differently from there you know it probably can't be any two probably one of them needs to be you know the the US I I think there's there's probably a lot of pairs or triplets of policy leaders that could could become quite fearful of their own life and then um things would be different. &gt;&gt; So if you had to pick one person to read the book and believe it, you probably want it in the author of The Art of the Deal, uh more than likely is my guess is you would love for for Trump to come in and like, you know, tell David Saxs uh and the rest of his AI team, I'm worried about AI safety, you know, incorporate it into our plan, I'm guessing. &gt;&gt; Um well, for one thing, I would never really use the term AI safety myself. you know, safety is for is for seat belts. Uh if if you're if you're in a careening towards a cliff edge, you know, you're not like, let's talk about car safety. You're like, let's not go over the cliff, right? Car safety is maybe a fine thing to work on and is a different sort of thing than like you're you're just building a device that's going to kill us here. You know, this isn't it's it's not like you need to add airbags to the AI and then it'll be fine. Like the labs are just building things that are by default going to kill us. Um, so yeah, I I I wouldn't want, you know, the the US top executives to get safety pled. I'd want them to sort of maybe get super intelligence that is grown, doesn't do a thing that anybody wants pilled. We've heard the current administration, some people in the current administration say, uh, like, oh well, there's a race with China on. That's that's not a good solution. Like AI needs to be stopped both here and in China. Like regardless of the US domestic AI policy, there needs to be an international AI policy that involves no one no foreign country uh succeeding in producing a super intelligence, right? Regardless of whether it's through an international like whether it's through carrot diplomacy or stick diplomacy, right? I would prefer an international treaty. But one way or another, you know, the the like administrations are going to need some way to uh to make sure super intelligence doesn't kill all of their citizens, right? Anyway, kind of a long rant, but I would say um if I had to pick one person to read the book and understand it in depth, I would probably maybe go with JD Vance uh over Donald Trump just on the theory that um probably JD Vance would be able to convince Donald Trump and he'd probably, you know, he's he's a bit younger. he's maybe spending a bit more time thinking about careful policy details. Um like uh but yeah, like maybe maybe Donald Trump. Also, I I I do think the modern Republican party in the US is more able to realize when the world isn't as it seems and then do something that's different from the existing narratives, you know, for better and for worse. Um, and I I do think it's it's not completely hopeless here. You know, I think um you you can you can say what you will about the government's current AI policies. They largely seem to me to be steering clear of taking any position on the super intelligence stuff yet. It's, you know, maybe I'm reading too much between the lines here, but sometimes their policies seem to me like they're go out of their way to steer clear of having any position on this like will it kill us all stuff. Um, and you know, talk talk only about the the parts of AI and accelerating the parts of AI that are sort of more clearly not in the in the killing kill everyone stance. You know, if they were saying we're definitely racing ahead towards super intelligence, that's one thing. if they're sort of not acknowledging super intelligence at all. You know, I I sort of I I think there's an opening here for them to sort of realize super intelligence is a different ballgame than just, you know, LLM's doing uh some job automation and, you know, some some deep fakes, which I'm not saying those aren't issues that society will need to grapple with somehow, but I think there's room for both political parties in the US to realize that super intelligence is a different ballgame, to realize that it is a national security issue. uh and to start taking it seriously. &gt;&gt; Um Mary had a strategy update they published on January 4th of 2024. They said uh although we still think the situation looks bleak, it now looks a little less bleak than we thought it did a year ago. And the source of this new hope lies in the way the public conversation about AI has recently shifted. Um I call out this quote because it was you know it's like oh hope what an unusual note to taste in uh the AI super intelligence discourse. Um since then so I guess we're like what 18 months later uh has your hope grown or decreased? Yeah, I mean as an aspiring Beijian uh I always try to have my hope set such that uh it goes up and down uh in roughly equal measure measured by expectation. Um which is to say you know lots of things perturb my hope a little. Uh, I think I see a lot of people making what seemed to me like very predictable big updates in their hope. You know, there's a lot of people who spent a lot of time engaging with us saying, you know, AI is not really all that possible. They'll never be a you'll never be able to get machines to talk. It'll take 50 years. It'll take a 100 years. It'll take 300 years. Then Chach comes along and they're like, oh my gosh, like who could have foreseen that the field of AI would continue to make progress? Um like now I'm suddenly very worried, right? Props to them for updating. Props to them for like noticing when they were worried. Uh but from my perspective that update was predictable. It was predictable that there will be some future advance, you know, and that it's predictable that at some point people will crack any given problem. You know, it's not predictable when, it's not predictable what method, but it's predictable that at some point the AI field will crack any given problem. Right? Maybe one day uh OpenAI's agents will finally work. The AI companies are always trying to make their agents. Lots of people are like, "Ah, AI are only acting like tools. Wake me when they act like agents." Right? One day that'll work. You know, there's there's then going to be a lot of people, I predict, who are like, "Oh my gosh, they're agents now. Now I'm worried." Right? Well, it's predictable that that point will be hit. And wouldn't it be nice if you could start reacting to the problem sooner and have a few more years or maybe a few more months? Who knows? um in which to try and make things better. You know, if you if you can tell you would you would see the agents as a gut punch, maybe feel that gut punch now and then uh start start reacting now. So, I do I do try to sort of like visualize all the future gut punches. You know, my my position is sort of trying to have integrated all the ones I expect to get and then my position gets tuned here and there depending on which ones do or don't land uh harder or softer. I think over the last year, you know, some of the tweaks have been through um, you know, US elected officials reacting a bit better than I expected to a lot of these arguments. There was a a a hearing in the US Congress recently where they talked about super intelligence directly. There have been some US Congress members who have um made statements about super intelligence being sort of a different situation than AI and potential national security issue. You know, we've we've seen uh responses on both sides of the aisle in the US to the AI 2027 report by the AI futures project that uh were at least somewhat positive. These are all little things that give me like small amounts of hope. Nothing nothing as large as I think the Chat GPT opening. Um and of course there's also, you know, a slow downwards trend. The more you know, we we spoke earlier about how it's going to be easier. it would be easier to shut down AI progress now than in two years. And so every day that the world is not reacting, every day that the world is not uh shutting this research down is another day uh where we we sort of stay on the doomed track. So there's sort of, you know, maybe maybe the usual movement is like a a a slow decline as humanity does nothing with occasional like sawtooth jumps up. um if there's some positive sign and with the decline set such that it's falling at the same level as the expected number of jumps you know all of which is to say like no huge shocks but yeah of course it goes up and down depending on um the day-to-day observations I want to talk a little bit about you can you talk to me about like the first moments like when you first started thinking about this like it's actually very hard to tell from your like online presence of uh when did When did this these arguments start to hit you? When did you start to seriously consider this? &gt;&gt; It was in the fall of 2012 and uh I basically just read arguments online. I sort of long had a picture of the world as not being very good at competently rising to the challenge at hand, you know. Um which I think is clearer now. I think it's clearer now in the wake of, you know, co um in the last maybe 10 or so years of global developments um I think a lot of a lot of people have sort of started to notice that there there there's no you know secret competent cabal that's running everything. sort of seeing the world as as like derpy, as like foolish and silly in its early approaches to to challenges that that face civilization. And usually that's fine because, you know, humanity can stumble through one world war and then invent the League of Nations and be like we're never doing that again and then like stumble it way into a second world war and be like whoopsies, you know, and then um you know do a little better the next time, but really in some sense only under the threat of like thermonuclear annihilation. So I had sort of always I was already predisposed um towards this view that humanity fumbles challenges before it succeeds at challenges. And then um I just hadn't really thought about the AI challenge. And so then when I read some arguments online about how AI was going to involve some challenges, I was sort of very clear to me very quickly that um humanity would likely fumble it. And I think there was one particular day where I had that realization and I was like, "Oh, I guess humanity is pretty likely to just die to AI when that happens." Um, and also that I should do my best to avert that outcome. And then there was sort of a &gt;&gt; Was that a specific day? Do you like was do you have the day in your head? &gt;&gt; 20 2020 uh 2012. Yeah. Uh, I mean, did you drown your sorrows in gravy? Um, like what? Like, if you can remember the day, it must have been a bad day. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, it wasn't a fun realization, but you know, I I I mourned once and then woke up the next day. I was like, "All right, what do we do?" &gt;&gt; I was trying to describe to my wife when I she's like, "What are you reading?" I was talking about your book in this interview and the phrase that I said was Nate is a prophet of doom, you know, or like the other thing I tried was he's commencing on the world's most depressing book tour. Um, does those descriptions does it feel accurate to how what your life is right now? Do you feel like uh you're trying to warn the people, you know, there's doom coming, the flood is coming? &gt;&gt; Yeah, to some degree. Um, one, you know, I would I would sort of never uh describe myself as a prophet. Uh, I would say the difference between uh a prophet and someone who's merely trying to predict what they can is that the prophet hasn't answered everything. And someone who's trying to predict what they can is doing this distinguishing between what can we guess about the future and what is just basically unguessable. But you know I I do think there's one specific property of the future which is uh at least conditionally on on humanity building super intelligence in this way which is if we do this it's just going to kill us right in that respect uh I do think my life is is sort of becoming a uh message spreading sort of life. This is not what I wanted to be doing. You know, I I spent the last 10 years trying to figure out how to avoid ending up here. Uh we used to say the difference between a technical problem and a political problem is that a technical problem has a solution. Back in 2013 when I sort of started research on this project or on this on this problem, it looked like we might have a lot more time. It looked like the world might it might be possible to galvanize the world into doing the technical research that we would need to do the job right. It looked like the technical research might turn out to be easy. there might turn out to be simple solutions that we could then give to the labs, right? All of those hopes sort of fell away. Um the pace of AI progress turned out to be pretty fast. The paradigm in which AI is being created is basically a worst case situation where we're we're growing them. We have very little control over what goes on in there, very little visibility into what goes on in there, very little ability to to make AIs that um are are steering the world towards good outcomes. Um, and you know, probably could have started this this podcast circuit. Probably could have started the book in 2021 or 2022. Uh, you know, that the the transformers were a little bit more visible to people who were paying attention even before chat GPT. You know, some people could see GPT3, maybe even GPT2. And in part, I didn't do that because I was hoping someone else would take up the torch. Um, I don't think I'm the best for it. I sort of am more comfortable behind a whiteboard. Although in part also, you know, the book came out of having a lot of these conversations in DC and seeing a lot of politicians behind closed doors being worried but saying I can't talk about this cuz I would sound too crazy. While also the poll numbers are showing something, you know, huge portions of the population who think it's crazy to rush ahead to super intelligence. And so there's this sort of weird like everybody thinks it but nobody can say it situation. And that was also that was sort of the thing that pushed pushed me over the edge and being like all right, it's really time to do a book. Yeah, I've sort of wound up in a position of being like, "Hey, you know, the world needs to wake up and I guess I'm one of the guys to to keep on yelling that into the void." Uh, not my favorite pastime, but somebody has to and no one else will. when you look at people who have these really um depressive worldviews. So if you like for I was thinking about a lot of the classic philosophers who have these worldviews you know uh whether it's Hobbes or whoever you know their lives they're kind of like depressed people right their lives are hard they they have this you know they have these amazing thoughts that inspire generations and shape how we conduct ourselves in the world but their actual lives are miserable and so when I was reading your book and thinking about you I was like I I was wondering maybe this too personal you have kids? &gt;&gt; I do not have kids. &gt;&gt; Married? &gt;&gt; I'm not married. &gt;&gt; Is that a a result of like your research where you feel like it uh you know like I didn't go down that path because I was worried about what would happen? &gt;&gt; Um maybe a little but probably not in the way you think. Um like I said earlier, I I I have no qualms ethically with uh having kids in a in a dying world. Um I think uh again I would personally prefer to to live and die young than to never live. I you know my my decisions not to have kids is a little bit more like well for one thing expecting the world to maybe end soonish does take some of the wind out of the sales of having kids. You know I don't think it's I don't think it's bad to have a kid who maybe dies at age 8. &gt;&gt; Um I would have loved to live until 8. You know, it's it's if if the if the world doesn't want the kids to die, the world can get its act together. You know, I think the kids shouldn't die. I think we should get our act together. But it's not I don't think that's a problem parents should really really be considering. If if you want to have kids, kids bring joy to the world. They would love the place. They should get to see it. You know, I'm I'm sort of proatalist in that sense. My reason for not having kids is less, oh no, maybe the world's too bad for them. My reason for not having kids is I can put that work I can put that time I can put that effort towards increasing the chance that there is a world right and I don't really need to trade like fortunately as a man I can probably have kids after this all blows over if it does blow over right and if it doesn't we're dead you know I have some gay meets frozen I'm not like giving up on having kids forever I'm just like you know my world's ending uh I'm going to focus on that first you know from my perspective Philosophically, I'm very uh in a certain sense very optimistic, right? A lot of I think there's a lot of people who expect a possible dystopian future even if humanity does not kill itself with AI. That is not my camp. I sort of believe in the power of human progress. I believe in like the the the goodness of human nature to sort of eventually win the day. A lot of the horrors that humanity commits seem to me like they come mostly from humanity's lack of ability uh and humanity's lack of resources rather than some like irredeemable part of the human spirit of of all the places in the in the universe that we can see so far. Earth is the only place with the light of love and happiness and friendship and joy. Like there's all sorts of good stuff here that I like care about and that I like wish to preserve, you know? I'm not I'm not like ah humanity is fundamentally da and that's how we're somehow bringing this bad thing upon ourselves. I'm not like ah AI is going to reflect our bad nature and it's like because we're making it through like a capitalist system it's going to blah blah blah. Right? None of that. I'm like like humanity seems to me to be quite wonderful, quite beautiful, like worth protecting, worth saving. Uh it's in some sense um you know I'm very pro kids. I have uh I I hope to have them one day, you know, and I'm not sort of like going around being grim all the time, you know. I have fun in my free time. I have I have good friends. I've still have a lot of good friends from uh from all stages of my life. Some who I met through this line of work, some who I've known since I was four, you know. Um you sort of can't let the fact that uh you might die stop you from having a good time and stop you from enjoying yourself, you know. And if everyone's going to die at the same time, that's an issue you might want to work on, you know, but fundamentally living under the shadow of death is not news to anybody. Um, I I think it's a it's a really thoughtful answer. Thank you. Um, I recognize that's a deeply personal question. Um, maybe uh a more tactful way I should have asked it or uh another roundabout way to ask about it. Does Mary have a 401k plan? Do you guys do 401ks? &gt;&gt; Um, we didn't for a very long time do 401ks. I think we might have had an employee recently who really wanted a 401k and so we set one up for them. But I don't know, probably I shouldn't go too much into any of the any of the personal stuff here. But, you know, there's there's a lot of people who say if you really believed this stuff, you would make this weird stock market bet &gt;&gt; that I have in mind and then have made a lot of money, right? Most of those weird stock market bets seem to me like they're stupid, right? Most people are like, "Ah, if you really believe this, you would have like a really crazy short position here." And I'm like, "You would just get wiped out um by volatility before the world ends, right?" But there are some stock market bets you can make if you actually put your money where your mouth is in the year 2014 or the year 2013 or the year 2012, right? And uh I did put some of my money where my mouth was and I don't need a 401k. Um, but it's it's also the case that with that money, I am doing things like, you know, investing in biotech companies that have a chance of maybe making humans a little bit smarter so that smarter humans can try and solve these problems, right? Like I both don't need a retirement fund and am trying not to die rich. Uh, and so there's there's definitely, you know, it's my personal money is in some sense where my mouth is, although it's it's been a weird life path believing in this. But yeah, you know, I'm not I'm not putting off anything I want to do in the world. Uh, anything on my bucket list, you got to get that stuff in soon. You know, there's no point in waiting. Um, yeah. I one person I was talking uh we were just walking back from seeing a horror movie, which may have been why this was on our mind, but I was like, it's like if you really believe the world was going to end in, you know, I don't know, 5 years, what would you be doing? And uh in the movie there's a guy who is a drug addict. And so we're like, I don't know, maybe heroin. uh you know there's there's this there's this uh nihilism that can really arise in people if you're like oh the world's doomed whatever who cares um do you ever do you ever do you ever feel that like this urge just like ah the you know like uh obviously you care deeply about humanity about this cause about this message but I I have to imagine at some points you know there's there's these doubts and depression you're like ah whatever who cares that that bubbles up in Yeah, &gt;&gt; not really. Um, yeah, I don't I don't think I really understand that. Um, &gt;&gt; like, you know, in in um I don't know, maybe I maybe I shouldn't uh give give anyone spoilers by the end of the book, but you know, we we touch on this a little towards the end of the book, like we're not the first generation to live in the shadow of annihilation. &gt;&gt; Um, and the nihilism doesn't help. I mean, if if all you've ever really wanted to do is heroin and all your life you've been working so that you would have enough money to do heroin until you die and you're going to retire the moment you have enough money to do heroin until you die, you know. I guess maybe you start the heroin a little sooner, but I I don't I don't think that's a very that that just doesn't sound like a lot of fun to me, you know. Um, &gt;&gt; and for one thing, you know, it's not over till it's over. Humanity isn't dead yet. I'm not dead yet. uh like I don't see what help it would do to to despair. Um for another thing, you know, I I I think it it sometimes feels like a role of like, oh, if I think the world's ending, maybe I should act like Hollywood says people should act if they if they feel like the world's ending. But it's it's just not a very good role, the Hollywood method. You know, it's I mean, I guess even that is maybe giving too much um miscredit to Hollywood. I don't know if you've seen the movie Don't Look Up. Mhm. &gt;&gt; Uh but that seemed to me like it had an actually pretty okay depiction of people who believe their world's ending. I I don't think it actually looks like a bunch of decadence. I think it looks like uh spending time with people you love, you know, and like yeah, I'm I'm not skimping on that. Like I'm also not skimping on the occasional fun party, you know? &gt;&gt; But I don't like parties that much. And so &gt;&gt; me neither. I'm I'm with you. I'm also a writer. So I'm like I no I have this I'm not doing that. &gt;&gt; Like it's what what's you know when when people get diagnosed with terminal cancer you know sometimes they do some fun stuff on their bucket list but then they also you know read some books they like and spend time with their loved ones. It's you you do that and you try and make the world better and like you you take any opportunity you you can see to to make the world a better place and if there's no other opportunity you you spend time with your family and you enjoy yourself. You know it's it it it doesn't have to be hard. You don't have to to twist yourself up in knots about it. &gt;&gt; Well, don't worry. What we'll do is we'll just clip you about the heroin use. We'll just put that part on social media. None of the nice eloquent answer that you did afterwards. So, don't don't worry about that at all. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Um &gt;&gt; it'll it'll be it'll help me get used to this new uh this new world of being a prophet, you know. &gt;&gt; Yes, exactly. &gt;&gt; Forgetting uh what can and can't be taken out of context. &gt;&gt; Prophets can only speak in quips. That's the rule. Um, so I asked to prep for this interview, I asked um various See, I what I want to say is adherence to your faith. That's the that's the phrase that comes into my mind first, so I'm just going to roll with it. I talked to various adherence of your faith. Um, and these are &gt;&gt; I of course object to having any sort of faith and and per uh am neither an optimist nor a pessimist, but a realist and seek to believe only the truth. what as a humble prophet would say. Um but the anyways I I talked to a few people who share your belief system who agree with your arguments and these are multi-millionaire very successful technologists you know they're they're doing great in life and despite the all the resources they command um they felt hopeless and so I I have a quote from one of them it says I know uh Nate to be a good guy but I feel like I feel hopeless because of the arguments and I don't know what to do. So let's say someone finishes your book, believes what you say, agrees with what you say. You know, they're not the people meeting with in Washington. So what should uh you know, our the audience of this podcast, which is mostly technologists, what should they be doing uh differently uh once they believe what you say? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean with technologists, there's maybe a few more options than with a lot of other people. Um, you know, first and foremost would be not funding uh AI capabilities research. You know, a lot of this stuff is VC funded and like you could you could at least not be uh contributing to the end of the world with your own hands. uh more proactively. You know, I think I think one of our best bets for getting out of this mess, I think we need to stop internationally, we need to stop AI progress, but then there's a question of what we do with whatever time that buys because it won't it won't buy us infinite time. You know, it's there's a question what you do with that time. And I think uh one of my favorite plans, I don't think we have time to go into it. Um and people don't need to agree with me on this, but one of my favorite plans there is biotech. Um I think there's various ways to make humans smarter. Um, and maybe if we were smarter, we'd have a chance at solving this alignment problem. You know, in some sense, I think I said earlier, uh, the alignment problem is in some sense hard, not because it's fundamentally hard as a problem, but because you don't get to solve it by trial and error. And the way humanity usually solves its science challenges is by trial and error, right? But if we were smart enough, maybe we could skip that trial and error phase. Maybe you could start making smarter humans. There's some biotech coming down the line that maybe has some chances there. Um, that's where I'm investing some of my money. Um, you know, this is obviously not an investment advice and I mostly consider these sorts of investments to be more like charity. Um, and and things I'm trying to do to make the world a better place. But this, you know, these are places I would be looking anyone who's who's got the technological acumen to sort of start some biotech company that has some chance of making humans smarter. These are all ways people in exactly the right sort of position uh might have a chance to help. Most people aren't in exactly the right sort of position. I think for most people um what the world needs is an first and foremost an international treaty to shut down uh the AI development, the AI research and development. And most people aren't a diplomat, but everyone has the sort of voice that can help sway a diplomat, right? And like how do you use that voice? Well, say you're worried about this when there's an opportunity. Say you think it's crazy what people are doing when there's an opportunity. But like the way social stigma starts is with people not inviting their AI capabilities researchers friends to their parties. I have plenty of AI capabilities researchers friends. I don't invite them to my parties. I tell them, I think you shouldn't be doing this because I think it endangers us, right? Uh you you don't need to be a dick about it. You don't you don't need to, you know, yell at them all day. Uh but just remind people you think it's not cool to do this research. You know, start start putting more pressure. You know, there are people who have who have left this line of work like uh Daniel Daniel Katageo and were able to make a big impact that way that I think are great. Um, I think beyond the technology sphere in the day-to-day, um, there's, you know, I think a lot of people say it's inevitable. I think a lot of people say there's nothing we can do. I think a lot of people say it'll never stop. I think if you hear that, you can remind people we actually can stop. It is a choice. We don't need to die from this. We don't need to rush into this. Right? Sort of try to shift those memes. There's there's memes that like like you just have to give up and just saying we don't have to give up at every opportunity at every turn saying uh like nope we there's there's still a chance all we need to do is stop it. I think that's the sort of thing that helps build up this narrative helps build up this momentum that policy makers could later uh could later use. There's calling your your representatives. There's uh going out to protests. Uh those are two resources where we have um more QR codes in the book to help people do those things. They will be at um if anyone builds.com/act and if anyone.com/marchch uh where the ACT page will make it as easy as possible to contact your representatives and say you're concerned about this issue and the March page will give a uh a way to sign up for a march that only happens if we get enough people. Um, and maybe those pages will change depending when when you're listening to this, depending on on feedback and on what people can and can't do, but that's the top guess as to what's currently on those pages as you listen. Contact your reps. I think that actually matters. I think a lot of the, you know, I've been speaking to a lot of representatives and and senators, and a lot of them do care, but think they can't talk about this. hearing from a lot of people I think would actually make a difference to whether some of these some of these representatives could start talking about this more openly which is a first step towards a treaty. Um signing up to a march that happens if we get enough people you know that that could matter if enough other people if it matters to enough other people. Um and then saying at every opportunity when it comes up you know you don't need to make it your whole life but whenever it comes up in conversation saying you think it's ridiculous saying you think we could change sort of helping turn the tide of those memes. I think all three of those things help a little and I think most people all they can do is help a little. Uh and then keep an eye out for other big opportunities where you can make a difference. And then if you don't see one, don't twist yourself up and knots about it. You know, live a good life, have fun, spend time with loved ones, enjoy yourself, right? It's you don't you know, there's there's no law that says if you believe the world's in a bad shape, you must flagagulate yourself every morning. um do everything you can and then uh you know do no more. Enjoy your time. If the world really wants to make it out of this, it can get us act together and everyone can do everything they can to help. But then you know beyond that torturing yourself about it does not help anymore. &gt;&gt; Well, that is a remarkably hopeful way to end the conversation. Um really appreciate the time today and the book comes out September 16th. &gt;&gt; That's right. &gt;&gt; Um well, great. and we'll look forward to that and I highly recommend everyone read it even if you uh don't necessarily believe the arguments. I think they're worth taking seriously and was worth investigating. So appreciate the time today. &gt;&gt; Well, you can't know whether you believe the arguments unless you read the book. &gt;&gt; You know what? If I know anything as a you know being a writer for a long long time now, uh people very much have opinions whether or not they do the reading. &gt;&gt; Yeah, you can have opinions about the arguments without reading the book. That's for sure. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Good. Hey, well appreciate, man. I'll talk to you later. [Music]
