# Should You Buy A Robot?

**Channel:** Evan Puschak
**Video ID:** uQAedGFAvgs
**Upload Date:** 2026-01-09
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uQAedGFAvgs

## Transcript

Leading humanoid robots today cost about 20 grand. If it operates for three hours a day doing tasks that you would normally have to pay someone else to do, like $35 an hour, you get about $105 a day in value or roughly $38,000 a year, which gives you a payback period in 7 months. Remarkably low. Of course, there's some massive assumptions here. Namely, these humanoid robots don't work right now. They're just mostly in demo videos. And I watched the technology and I'm not sure it's going to work for a while. But the economic logic here is so compelling that the technology is receiving billions of dollars. Because if just one firm can make this work, it dramatically improves all of our home lives and is remarkably cheap on a time-spent basis. However, that only works if the companies work. If the companies making the humanoid robotics can capture the value and our previous research showed that it didn't. So why is this time different? To understand that you need to go back to a 1992 economic framework called the smile curve. This was an observation made about the personal computing industry. Namely, profit wasn't in the middle. In this middle is manufacturing. On the right hand side is the brand and customer and on the left hand side is the R&amp;D. The people actually making personal computers very rarely were profitable or even survive. So the question is are robots another example of the smile curve? Is it going to be a straight line or is it going to be a big smile? And the difference between the two is a straight line would be something like manufacturing airplanes where it's just so complicated and hard to make these robots that manufacturers are able to specialize and keep a large chunk of profits. The other option is that this big deep smile is smartphones where it's relatively easy to manufacture at massive scale and the people who either own the customer relationship side or they own the R&amp;D side are the ones who capture all the value. Right now it's looking more like airplanes than it is smartphones.
