# AI in 2026 | 4 Predictions About What's Coming

**Channel:** Evan Puschak
**Video ID:** mnzDUW5THUc
**Upload Date:** 2026-01-16
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mnzDUW5THUc

## Transcript

2026 is the year that AI becomes real. Up to this point, I think it's more been the realm of bloggers and people who are just trying to make a point or make a buck, but it hasn't really changed life all that much for most regular people. You probably have an account with Chat GPT. It's one of the most popular apps in the world, but it's mostly just a way to, you know, do homework or Google a little bit better, but it's not something that dramatically changes your life. And this year in 2026, that all changes. When I think about this year, there are four things that are going to happen. Four changes that might feel small at first, but are going to affect everything. The first is an application called Claude Code is going to make people realize how powerful AI actually is. If you're unfamiliar, Claude Code is from a company called Anthropic, and it's one of the fastest growing applications ever. In its first 6 months, it went to a billion dollars in annualized revenue run rate. A billion. I mean, that's just staggering. It's unbelievable. And it's going to look like peanuts to what happens over the next year. As a person who has used AI tools every day since GPT3 came out, I I've been flabbergasted by how much my work has changed, how much more powerful I feel using my computer. You know, I'm not a expert programmer. I I wouldn't even give myself the name of an engineer, but I mean in an afternoon I can make an application and then I can make a website and more than that I just feel empowered to be creative. For me it's felt like the first time that it's accessible enough for anyone. You know, it's an application. It it it's hard to use sometimes. It's a little confusing. It's intimidating looking. But I think just with a couple of user improvements, my mom will be able to use it and it's going to change how she does work. This is going to be the app. If chat GBT was a thing that made all of us aware, if it made us feel, oh, this might be a real thing. Something like Claude Code is going to make us realize the potential that ChatGBT initially promised us. with the combination of where the models are today and how much more powerful they are and the practice that these companies have had of actually making those ideas successful. Claude Code is the one like it it's really magical and we're going to see all the other labs like OpenAI will release mimics of this product and it's really going to change everything. This is the year where people are going to realize how much it changes their everyday lives. The second is that robots go into meaningful production. In 2025, we learned a couple of things about robots that we didn't really know before. We found that if you could pair a robot with a large language model, give it a couple of eyes via cameras, then give that robot with a large language model a bunch of practice in video simulation, and then give it a little bit of practice in the real world, it can accomplish tasks like folding laundry or doing the dishes or doing these things that I, you know, a couple years ago we were thought were impossible. What the big tech companies like Google and Tesla have realized and what the startups like physical intelligence and skilled have also realized is that the science works like it's real. It's happening and now was the time to put the foot all the way down on the gas. If I were to give a comparison, you know, this last year was kind of the jump from GPT2, which was a weird science experiment that you may have known had potential to GBT3. It's not going to change your life, but like this is really cool. This can work. The magic of it is that we're going to put real capital to work on top of just these science experiments. I would not be surprised if we spent in the United States north of 30 30 to$50 billion on robotics research, robotics manufacturing, robotics pilots, R&amp;D. That's going to probably happen this year. And that's because of these papers that have come out last year. If the entire sector of Silicon Valley has learned anything from the open AI saga, which is if you see results like they saw early on, capital, more capital, and even more capital needs to be piled on to go faster and faster and faster because it's an allout race. And we're just starting off in robotics and the science is even more promising than where foundation models and large language models were at this point in the journey just a few years ago. So this year you're not going to see a Tesla Optimus at a Subway sandwich shop just like making I I don't know deli meats for you. And you're unlikely to see it in industrial warehouses. They're still hard to manufacture. There's still so many things we have to figure out when it comes to widescale deployment of robots. What you are going to see is executives and company CEOs starting to make real plans around this technology. They're going to start thinking, "What does it mean when I can hire a humanoid robot for $30,000 versus paying for an entry-level labor worker at 50 or 60 or 100 or whatever it may be?" And companies are going to start to behave differently and plan differently because of this. Third, AI becomes a central issue in politics. A AI is not popular. It is scary. It sounds like job loss and it sounds expensive. When you see headlines, you know, Goldman Sachs forecasted that this year, just in the United States, we're going to spend like $600 billion dollar on building data centers. 600 billion. That's just it's hard to describe how much money that is. And it's all going into warehouses that are filled with miles of wires and copper pipes. It's going to increase electricity prices. And they are ugly. And people just don't like them. And even if you don't live near a data center, which is one great because you don't want to live near a data center, but two, if you don't live near one, your politicians are going to act like they are. You can expect that all these political figures will recognize that Trump has really embraced this AI stuff. He like if there's any central feature of his economic and technological policy, it is the embrace of artificial intelligence. And globally, politicians are becoming more populist. And what you have is this strange contrast where populist politicians like Donald Trump and numerous leaders throughout Europe have embraced the populist mandate. They are rising up for the people while simultaneously they are embracing artificial intelligence, which as a technology is deeply unpopular. Like it's just not it just people don't trust it. they think of Skynet and these horrible things and it's it's just not popular. So there's this really strange divide between these two areas and you can expect that whatever your political leanings, you know, whether you love Donald Trump, whether you hate him, there's going to be ads, there's going to be talking points about these data centers, there's going to be talking points about how people are losing their jobs or your electricity is higher. And whether that's true or not, it's worth recognizing that these politicians know it's important and they're going to use it to manipulate how you feel. They're going to use it to manipulate your vote. What that additionally means is that companies are subject to political ideology. Previous eras of technology, whether it was the internet bubble of the '90s or the social media boom of the 2010s, they were just kind of going to live and let live, you know, like woohoo, it's the future. or it's spreading hope and democracy and whatever. That's not happening for AI. Not at all. Instead, if you are thinking about investing or working in any of these companies, you need to realize that this is essentially a political choice that being a part of this for better or for worse becomes a political issue and you have to behave accordingly. No one pays me for my political opinions. No one wants my political opinions. So, I'm not going to dive into this world on how this is all going to play out for elections. It's just not my call. But I think it's an important thing to note because in a good world, technology lives or dies by its merits alone. But this year in 2026, technology will live or die based on the politicians it aligns itself with. And I just don't think that's good for anyone. The fourth thing you need to know is that the music isn't going to stop. Not at all. Open AI may stumble. Elon Musk may do something horrible with Exit.AI. There will probably be a startup that defrauds investors of tens of millions of dollars. There will probably be a startup that blows up and burns through billions of dollars and it has nothing to show for it. And you know what? It's just not going to matter. During the crypto boom of like 2021, I saw people like me making predictions like you just heard. Crypto is going to change the world. Everyone's going on the blockchain. And you would see these kind of little nothing burgers of press releases from major companies saying, you know, we're going all in on the metaverse or whatever. And nothing really came of it. What makes this time feel different to me is we are talking not just about press releases or little product demos or you know just kind of vague gestures from the tech giants. We are talking about hundreds of billions of dollars in data centers. VC funds deploying more capital faster than they ever have before. And most importantly, we are seeing revenue growth like we have never seen before. What's different this time is that there's just more traction. Like the technology is actually real and useful and it is useful immediately. I mean even just today I was talking with a legacy SAS provider. Their company is worth many multiple tens of billions of dollars. And they were talking to me about how their entire product strategy, their hiring practices, how they thought about the future of this many billion dollar company had completely changed from HR to coding to marketing. Every aspect of their business was operating differently and faster and more explosively. This company may or may not survive. Who who knows? I'm not here to make a prediction on a specific organization, but for whatever reason, there is a class of commentator who refuse to acknowledge the change that's happening in the world. They refuse to see that this time is very, very different. And there will be instances this year guaranteed that will make people crow and say, "Ha, I told you so." And it just won't matter because this year is the year that AI becomes very real. The idea of robots crashing into our lives soon makes most people afraid that they'll lose their job, that the world will change for the worse, or that we'll just get some Terminator-l like scenario. But right now where the technology and the competition in the market is, it's weirder.
