# China, AI Immigration, Rare Earths & Chips, Tariffs, Markets | BG2 w/ Bill Gurley & Brad Gerstner

- **Channel:** https://www.youtube.com/@BG2Pod
- **Video ID:** 4qG_f2DY_3M
- **Upload Date:** 20250606
- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4qG_f2DY_3M

## Transcript

And if you and I want to win championships and build a championship basketball team, we should not care where in the world the basketball player comes from. We just need to get the best players on our team to win the championship. And we ought to take the [Music] [Applause] [Music] Hey, Bill. Great to see you, Brad. How you doing, man? I'm doing great. I'm doing great. Um, you know, I'm heading back to uh Boston this weekend for my 25th HBS reunion. 25. I I it's it's crazy. I mean, you're old. You're way older than me, but you you know, I uh I I can't believe it's 25 years. And and I'm doing this talk on what's happening in AI, you know, these days. And there's a lot of questions about and comparisons because remember we were there during the 99200 kind of boom and and bust. And so a lot of my classmates are are are wondering whether or not AI is kind of like that again. And so I was going back and pulling together these slides and I have to say a few things just shocked me frankly like I I I forgot how much has changed. Um one was I was doing I was looking and doing some analysis on Amazon. you know, I was day trading Amazon out of the back of the classroom back then and you were out here working on the IPO. So, I know you were paying attention uh to what the share price was in 98.99 and 2000. And a couple interesting points, right? Amazon, if you recall, Bill, and I know you do, it peaked at 243 bucks a share in 1998, but at the start of 2000 is at 150 bucks a share. Okay? And Henry Blahett famously makes the call. He calls $400 a share and he he literally kind of top ticks it from the year 2000 and the thing plummets and goes down to about 26 bucks a share, right? He gets ridiculed and and all this stuff. But I wonder, by the way, it went it went public at 17 and broke issue. Yeah. About Wow. So it traded under under issue for about two months, right? And I I'm sure you didn't get any calls from the company about what the f was going on. Um but here's the crazy thing, right? remember he gets ridiculed for making that call. So I wanted to know and I went and asked asked our chat GBT friend to help me with some split adjusted math on this. So split adjusted from the high in 2000 which was this 150 that's equivalent to about 47 cents split adjusted today. So it's up about 440x from where it was in 2000. And on a split adjusted basis from the low in 2000 it's up about 1,800x right I mean those are shocking numbers and you know so that was one of the things that ded so I said well what's happened to the NASDAQ since we graduated well from the peak in 2000 the NASDAQ is still up 5x and from the trough trough in 2000 it's up 10x and so I think you know what's the punchline the punch line is you know we were a bunch of dreamy eyed, big, you know, big thinkers. Um, we thought we knew everything about the internet. We we we knew it was going to change the world forever. And it turns out we overestimated what it was going to do in the short term, right? Over the next two to three years, adoption was slower. We had the terrorist attacks in 2001. We had an economic recession. So things definitely grew slower. But the biggest problem was there just weren't that many people connected to a high-speed internet. So all the things we dreamed of occurring were just inefficient to happen at that time. Uh but what's probably even more surprising, Bill, is how dramatically we underestimated the long term. Over the next 20 to 25 years, it blew away all of our estimates and forecasts in terms of how big these companies would be. And so now we sit here at, you know, kind of the dawn of the age of AI. And I think people are asking a lot of these same questions. But, you know, that was probably the the the biggest punchline on my 25- year reflection. All right. Well, now if they listen to the podcast, we're they're not they're going to miss your talk. Maybe maybe, you know, talking about this pace of AI. You and I were were sending some things back and forth just about some strategic shifts going on in the world. Talk us through that. Well, obviously, I mean, the pace continues like crazy. every every time, you know, every between just the podcast episodes we do, which are about two to three weeks, there's new news always and constantly. And um it's hard to keep it's hard to keep up with it. But I do try and pay attention to the stuff that spikes in my brain is being strategic and something you should really pay attention to. And one thing that that I've seen in the past week, so this is very recent, is what I might call data walls. And so everyone's recognizing the value of AI. Everybody wants to have AI work against their data, against, you know, the and and everybody wants to wow the consumer or the customer of their product. And so all of a sudden though, we're seeing, you know, things pop up where people are trying to wall off data. And, you know, one example would be uh Reddit just sued Anthropic this morning despite having a deal. So, it' be interesting to unpack what what's in there. I think there's a a tiff between Windsurf and Anthropic where Anthropic cut off cut them off to all their models. you know when surf was bought by open AAI not that surprising but just seeing these walls pop up I think a more interesting one in the enterprise in case is Salesforce changed their terms of service and in a way that includes not only the CRM data but Slack data which you know is a company they bought and they're putting an M MCP connector on top of it which allows AI to query it but they're telling They're saying that you can't train on the data that's in there. And hold on a second. So alimter Slack data, I can't train on my own data. That's what that's what the change in the terms of service say. You can query the MCP. Yeah. I I think it's I you know I I think maybe we'll start to talk about enterprise applications as either being open data or closed data and people are going to need to declare that. But my guess is that if you're a competitor to Salesforce, you're immediately going to declare yourself open data and try and steal as many customers as possible. I can't fathom in my own brain how upset I would be if I were paying seven, eight figure license to Salesforce and they told me I couldn't train on my own on my own data, which is basically everything about my customers and everything that I would want to analyze. Now, I'm sure they're going to train on it and give you their AI agentic view of it. um which is why they're doing this. But but battle lines are being drawn, you know, going back to the old song, you know, and one of the things you didn't mention, Bill, I just saw Kevin uh while our friend tweeted from OpenAI that deep research is now searching across GitHub, Google Docs, Gmail, Outlook, HubSpot, Dropbox. Now, I think a lot of that's using MCP, but you know, I do agree with you that this all seems to be happening faster rather than than slower. You know, it reminds me you and I back in the day sitting in a Zillow board meeting and talking about build people building dependencies on Google and you were very much uh in in aligned with you you can't build a brand in the underbelly of Google because over time they will have to take that territory back, right? And I remember Trip Adviser peaked at $20 billion in value, building a search engine, a recommendation engine in the underbelly of Google. And then when Google decided it was time to do recommendations on its own, Trip Advisor's value went from 20 billion to 1 billion. And you know, but that happened over a period of many many years, Bill. And what I see happening here is kind of in in in part because AI is going so much faster than the internet did. Right. I did I saw some analysis from my team this week. will post that OpenAI reached uh you know 400 billion annual searches 8 years faster than Google right so they're doing over a billion searches a day now right so all of this is happening in hypers speed and so the strategic plays by all of these companies to vertically integrate to shut down you know access to data because they all know that they need to monetize by kind of offering that full stack and so You know, that to me is is something for these companies. When you look at Windsurf, they're going to have to build their own models. When you look at cursor, they're building their own models, right? The dependencies on on, you know, kind of all of these different open models, I think, is ch, you know, is changing very rapidly. And I'm sure Anthropic, you know, woke up on the wind surf announcement and said, "Oh, wait. You know, OpenAI is going into verticals like and and we're good at coding, so how do we think about this?" And yeah, I mean it's a reordering. I think people really need to pay attention to this data thing. If you look at where OpenAI wants to go on the consumer side, you know, access to your contacts, your your calendar, your mail, like all that's going to matter and you're going to want your personal assistant to be able to do that. And whoever owns those systems, whether or not they try to block access to it or not, will be interesting. You know, Google has an advantage in that they own, you know, they own their their own phone platform and they own their own Gmail platform and they own their own alternative to the office stack. And so, you know, they should be able to make that a competitive advantage. But, you know, whether or not they'll be willing to put up a wall and say, "Open, I can't scrub this." It'll it'll all be very interesting. It's something that's super important to watch. I mean, I listen, I think it would it would be a bad development, right? Uh, you know, I think you and I both agree that MCP is a good development and allowing more open access. At the end of the day, it should be my data. It's my Gmail, right, that I'm paying for. It's it's it's it's my Google Docs that I'm creating and I'm paying for. And so if you tell me that I'm not going to be able to use my AI of choice, right, accessing this information to make my life better to answer questions that, you know, that will lead to a lot of disruption. So, but that is the question, right? Because here we have Deep Research announcing today that they're going to access all those things using MCP on my behalf, which I'm excited about, right? because I am using all of those Google services, but I do like the idea of using chat GPT that has a lot of built-up memory about me to access those services. So, I think you and I will certainly be loud and proud on the side of keeping this all open. Uh, but we definitely see some early warning signs here of people closing down the ecosystem, you know, in order to try to protect some of those uh some of those advantages. Another topic, Bill. You know, we've talked a lot about China, and one of the interesting parts of our dialogue from my perspective over the course of the last few months is just how well China is doing in robots, in autos, in batteries, in precision manufacturing, Deep Seek coming out of out of nowhere, Huawei building, you know, chips that are catching up very quickly. But you sent me this piece of research this week and it's really enlightening because you know it talks about uh let a thousand flowers bloom like how they've in fact seated these industries and and there's probably some stuff we could learn here. So unpack it for me, Bill. Why has this been so successful? Yeah, and for the record, I had chat GBT do the analysis. It was version 4.5, the $200 a month version. Um it's an amazing piece of research. I I guess it could have some errors in it, but I would we're going to post it so everybody can see it. But yes, um I think it's imperative that we understand exactly why China is so competitive in so many industries and and what led them to be successful. And what I uncovered and I had heard heard this from a few other people in the past, but what I really uncovered the detail on is that in these industries where they want to succeed, they actually make sure that there are 500 competitors or a thousand competitors and then they let the market whittle down to what the best one is. So rather than I think we have a perception that communist or authoritarian governments have a stingle state sponsored company that's not very competitive. That's not what they're doing. They're doing something very different. They're they're they're letting entrepreneurism and kind of a Darwinian competition and survival of the fittest, you know, create these the five companies that survive all of that as winners. And we all know because we believe in capitalism that that has, you know, that kind of system will lead to the very best shining at the end of the day. Well, it's it's interesting, Bill, because, you know, you and I grew up kind of with with this model in, you know, Soviet Russia where they picked a state actor and part of the reason we won the Cold War is they bankrupted themselves. All those state actors were terrible. They were inefficient. They were full of grift. They couldn't compete. Their products weren't any good. But we see the exact opposite out of China. We see products that are globally competitive, you know, and many that are in in these different industries better than the US. So, there has to be something systematic and structurally different that they're doing even though we refer to them as both both of them as communist systems. Correct. and and I would you know I I've studied these types of systems my whole life and it you know I've mentioned before that I'm on the board of the San Institute and this kind of Darwinian competition is exactly the kind of thing that I would if you told me they were doing this before they did it I'd say well that that might actually work right like that's this is sensible to me that this works one one thing that came out of it um in addition to just help helping to identify winners you know there's a couple of other benefits you get from this one, you're exposed to way more optionality because 500 startups will try a bunch of different approaches. And one one thing I've uncovered in the past few weeks is Chinese LAR is solid state and designed very differently than the LAR that Whimo is using. And it's actually in China right now is I think being priced at like $130 a car, this solid state MIMS lighter. whereas the Whimo lighter is like $5,000 a car. So you end up in completely different places because of this type of com competition and you have this many people trying different things. And then the other big thing that happens is your supply chain develops in a lot more robust way because if I'm a supplier, you know, to, you know, a part that's important to a solar panel or to an EV, I now have, you know, 50 or 100 competitors. So you end up and and that bursts more and more competitors in in for that part as well. And so you end up with a much more robust supply chain, more players at each each step along the way. And I you know I think the data suggests and this this piece of research would suggest that's why they've been so successful in EVs where there were over 500 EV startups. 500 in the US. What has there been four legitimate ones? A handful. So here's my question. Right in Silicon Valley, we have this dynamic ecosystem of risk capital. We're probably I don't know fourth, fifth generation of risk capital and risktakers. They find each other. There's not a lot of government interaction or coordination. Uh with regard to that, you know, it it it just kind of happens. What are we saying like like how is is this ecosystem developed? There's definitely venture capital in China, but it seems to me as a fraction of the venture capital that that exists in the in in the US or certainly the tightness of the ecosystem over the course of the last four or five years has been reduced dramatically because a lot of the US players right backed off from China. So is it the state the different states and provinces that are seeding or subsidizing to get these 500 startups rolling? Like how are they getting going? Yeah. Yeah. So, so the government involvement, you know, is at a pro provincial level and that's part of why there's such a a high number like a high number of startups in the area. I mean, it it's interesting if you take this as a conclusion, oh, this this worked this was very successful for them and then you turn and say, what should you know the west do? I think it's hard because, you know, when when our government's tried to get involved in startups, it's never been about helping to ensure there were a thousand of them. It's usually, you know, you create some program. The one that's I stuck in my brain was solar because I actually had a company in the space, you know, where there were probably 10, you know, solar startups that had raised over $500 million and then three of them were able to, you know, court the players in DC long enough to to get money. Celindra being the the one that people remember the most because they eventually went bankrupt. But but that doesn't feel like this thing, right? that that feels more like uh regulatory capture and who can win, you know, at the highest level. This and and and it's more at the end of the game. This is at the beginning of the game. So, I don't know. I don't know if there's a US equivalent of this. I'll need to think about that. I think my first step was just to to take a fresh look at why they've been successful. And when I saw that the approach was so, you know, novel from what I had imagined it was, it was very eye opening. Well, one of the things you pointed out to me was that they depprioritize market caps or I might even say over the last 5 years that they've kind of attacked the largest market cap companies in favor perhaps of uh diversifying competition. And so, you know, it seems like the one thing I think we can definitively say there's a hell of a lot more national coordination about what industries are important like their industrial policy identifies an industry. Then what it seems like they do from the, you know, kind of central governing authority is they encourage all of the the provinces to seed these companies within, you know, their their different uh areas, allow that competition to occur. So I guess the question is you know when you look at the US where you know it's much more just unfettered competition is this just like uh is the point here just be aware of this or are you suggesting that there are things that the US needs to do I mean it seems in some ways like the coordinated industrial policy that's now coming out of Washington the stuff that the president is talking about where we have to reonshore critical national industries precision manufacturing some medical supplies some chips some, you know, aluminum and steel that would seem to me to be fairly aligned with the industrial policy that you're discussing here. Well, there there's there's so much like you asked you just asked a question that might take four hours to answer, but let me let me just try and be as tur as possible in responding to it. So, I had Chad CBD do two more pieces of research. The first one I this or this would be part two. Part two is worth mentioning. So um I think most people believe that and talk about China subsidization. So once winners are identified there are situations where the government has helped subsidize. BYD was in a situation where I think they were given $2 billion. So um that second part walks through cases of that. I don't want to shy away from that part because that is the criticism that a lot of people bring to the table and so this will give a dump of that. But the third thing what you hinted at which which I think is very important to think about and before I get to any type of response I want to make sure I fully understand what's happening and there does seem to be in China and I I and part three of this research walks through this a dep prioritization of market cap of successful companies and this this is something that I think should be important for policy makers to understand but also investors if you're buying stocks of Chinese companies, you know, hoping that they will, you know, like like the Mag 7 turn into these $3 trillion entities. The the Chinese government may not consider that part of the objective function of what a win is. And in the past three weeks, we saw BYD take prices down 30%. That may have had encouragement from the government. I don't have proof of that, but it looks it looks synonymous with with the kinds of things that matter to them. And so if your if your government cared mostly about high employment and cared mostly about the durability of the competitiveness of your companies globally, you might take, you know, what I would call the Amazon approach and say, you know, your margin is my opportunity. I'm going to be the lowcost producer and that's going to make my competitive position relative to other countries around the world the best it can be. And if I don't have a government that's dependent upon whether or not those market caps are high or not, then I might encourage price competition, you know, in in an industry that we're already winning at. Well, and and and and that's consistent like if you look at as winners begin to emerge, right? China definitely plays a heavier hand, right? You have golden shares and veto rights by the government. You have preferential procurement by the government. You have regulatory rep approvals that are required and you know in this post DD era where they you know went public. I mean we've seen the the government literally I mean they disappear Jack Ma with respect to Alibaba they they've stepped in right we have bite dance it still is not is not public so clearly they exert way more control once the winners emerge we know that they're doing this at some level with Huawei as well and and and and all those topics that you just mentioned they're all covered in these three pieces so if people have more interest I would encourage them to read it but I I think in the US we have a mindset that oh having tr you know $3 trillion winners is is a is a positive sign and I think it's important to understand that that may not be the attitude over there and that can that can lead to different decisionm you're making me think about some of uh the relative valuation comparisons between Chinese internet companies and US companies if you really think that um there's going to be an obstacle to allowing ing them to grow bigger. That's uh that's something US investors have to take into account. Well, I think the number one thing for me, Bill, the the so what on all of this is that we're we're in this competition with China. And I think we would be very naive to think that they're going to do anything but be extraordinarily competitive. You and I have argued they're on the frontier of AI already. Uh they're gaining ground quickly on chips uh and right on our heels. And so I I appreciated unpacking a little bit the why, like why have they they been so su successful there? So that that was my takeaway. Bill, are there any other takeaways uh from the research that you have? Well, there there two. Um, one, you know, I think a lot of people kind of quip quickly that, oh, China's successful because of IP theft or, you know, I think if you if you narrow it down to one, you know, derogatory action or comment, you're ignoring this system that and that's why I would encourage people to read that part one at least and just see the breadth of the work that that went in into place because that you could make a bad policy decision because you think, oh well, if we just protect IP, then this won't keep happening. But there there's more happening than that, you know, and so that'd be part one. And then second, on the AI front, um, one thing we talked about last time is, you know, all of a sudden you open your eyes and there's four deep pocketed open-source players in China. And if you think about, you know, promoting competitiveness as part of what's going to lead to global success, I wouldn't be shocked to learn or find out that the government favored, you know, an approach like that and having four open source competitors for all the reasons that the systems they put in place for EVs and solar panels, to me, those are very similar. Right. Right. So it just makes it cheaper and easier for the ecosystems to benefit from one another even though the economics and the margins on those products may be lower. Yes. And one other thing that I should have mentioned that might be an objective function of the CCP is just the affordability to their to their entire citizenry. So you know BYD selling a car for 10 grand is better for the consumer in China as might be you know for open- source AI models. Hm. Interesting. Well, staying on the theme of China, Bill, you and I have talked a ton over the past two years about the need to stop illegal immigration, but to to dramatically ramp up recruiting and retaining the best and the brightest to the United States. Totally. You know, we've we've we've done former pods on this and and we've talked about the age of AI is all about talent. I remember how excited we were after we saw the president on the all-in pod talking about how it was going to become way easier to get an H-1B visa. Literally like stapling a green card to to to these diplomas. But what I want to do and what I will do is you graduate from a college, I think you should get automatically as part of your diploma a green card to be able to stay in this country. And that includes junior colleges too. Anybody graduates from a college, you go in there for two years or four years, if you graduate or you get a doctorate degree from a college, you should be able to stay in this country. And you know more stories than I do, but I know of stories where people graduated from a top college or from a college and they desperately wanted to stay here. They had a plan for a company, a concept and they can't. They go back to India. They go back to China. They do the same basic company in those places and they become multi-billionaires employing thousands and thousands of people and it could have been done here. And a bigger example is you they you need a pool of people to work for your companies. You have great companies and they have to be smart people. Not everybody can be uh less than smart. You need brilliant people. And we force the brilliant people, the people that graduate from college, the people that are number one in their class from the best colleges. you have to be able to recruit these people and keep the people. It was such a big deal. Somebody graduates at the top of the class, they can't even make a deal with the company because they don't think they're going to be able to stay in the country. That is going to end on day one. Um, but this week we got a very different message, right? Marco Rubio tweeted, "The US will begin revoking visas of Chinese students, including those with connections to CCP." which seemed reasonable, but the the this the conjunction was or studying in critical fields. Y right and that seemed out of the gates like we all know AI is a critical field. It seemed really um broad and concerning and and really a 180°ree turn from what the president had previously said on the all-in pod. I saw that you tweeted something about this. What was your reaction to this and and how are you feeling about where we stand today on it? Yeah, I mean and and I think in one of our very first episodes, we posted a video of Reagan, which I think it was like his last speech leaving office where he talked about America, you know, being successful precisely because our doors are open and inviting to the best and brightest from around the world. And all of that makes sense to me. And this particular action, I think, has the potential to run counter to all those positive things. I, you know, I wish there had been more followup on the on the Trump uh promise. I would be hugely supportive of that. We've all seen the list of all the immigrants that have been so successful and critical to the to Silicon Valley's own success. And you know, you you and I have also talked about the fact that some people say 50% of AI researchers are are of Chinese origin. And I believe now the patent count in AI coming out of China is larger than the US. And so, yeah, one interesting takeaway from what we just talked about is maybe the Chinese government isn't as interested in entrepreneurs um being as successful economically, you know, from an equity standpoint. So, if we're that land of opportunity, they would want to build be here. They would want to be a citizen here. They would want to build our their companies here. And so I really think, you know, and and look, I'm all for, you know, not not having spies, right? That makes sense. But when you take these kind of broad statements and, you know, and and they have they have the potential to be slippery slopes, right? Where the next step is what you start, you know, studying LinkedIn for every single AI company for anyone of Chinese origin. And I I I think that has the potential to take on kind of a McCarthy like, you know, perspective that could be very dangerous to our long-term competitiveness. Well, I think part of it too is just about brand USA. Like what is the brand we want to project into the world, right? It it like it's not just about the students who are already here. It's about the generation of students who are still in China or or or still in Southeast Asia or anywhere else in the world in South Africa like Elon and Saxs and you know and others you know is this a place that they feel like is capriccious and can just change on a dime and all of a sudden throw them out after they've invested time and energy here or is this truly the land of opportunity the place they want to go build their dreams and I think that the cost to the US brand on a global basis we have been the place for the last three four decades or much much longer but certainly in the age of technology everybody's wanted to come and do these things it's ignored to our great national benefit trillions and trillions of dollars worth of US enterprise our economic growth our economic productivity our standard of living is higher we've stayed ahead in all of these critical national security areas precisely because we've been so inviting to people around the world and we were making the argument uh you know, when we had Aaron Levy on that we need to dramatically increase the number of H-1B visas and make it a lot easier for people to get them. And so, when I hear this, um, I mean, I I have to say out of everything that's occurred in the administration, in some respects, I could not have been more thrilled by the president's promise on the all-in pod. I I thought that was a big turning point. um I think for folks in Silicon Valley and so to see this what felt like a 180 on this I certainly hope that it was misinterpreted that it's very narrow that we we we are going to project uh an inviting and welcoming brand America certainly man right now it is so critical in the age of AI to get the world's best researchers here like you said I saw a study that suggested that 40 to 50% of the AI researchers in the United States Our best researchers are Chinese. So if you're going to go after Chinese students studying AI at Stanford, you by definition, the slippery slope is not that far to say I got to go after these researchers. They're a lot more risk to our national security theoretically than a student studying at Stanford. Again, I'm with you. I'm all about being tough. You got to be here legally. I don't want anybody spying on us. But the the I think it's a very dangerous place and really destructive to our national brand if we do this. And so, you know, when you I saw your tweet about this, the best way to stay ahead of China is is to poach their talent. You know, just a few weeks ago, we were talking about an AI visa, right? That if you were an AI researcher from China in the United States, we had to give your family an AI visa to come over here so that you don't have so much pressure on you to go back to China. Um, so we need to find out where we we need to bottom this out, but but I certainly want to weigh in uh that we need to focus on find, you know, just merely trying to understand China, why it's successful and and all those things. Um, some people label you as a China file, you know, just because you're not a China hawk. And um I worry more in general that the China hawk mindset leads you to policy that's really bad, you know, especially people that jump to that place. And a lot of people are these days, right? And and so I I I just think that, you know, policy is one of those things where you can have an intent and you can implement a policy and you can get the exact opposite outcome, which was one of the things I talked about back in the in Well, the export controls, the export controls on on on China probably is what caused Huawei to catch up so quickly. you know, the the Biden era diffusion rule was going to allow the Chinese AI stack to win the global race in AI, you know, and now we see, and I think Sax has appropriately called this out, we see this conflating between people who are just AI decelerationists and want to stop AI and capture it for themselves. Right now, they're kind of positioning themselves as China hawks so that they can gather a bigger alliance in order to to to slow this down. I think it's all bad policy. From my perspective, we need to focus on our own race. Look at the lane ahead, run as fast as we can. And if you and I want to win championships and build a championship basketball team, we should not care where in the world the basketball player comes from. We just need to get the best players on our team to win the championship. And we ought to take the same approach to AI and technology. and and and and I you know other people have said this so I don't want to belabor it too much but you know the the entire Manhattan project was uh was heavily impacted by immigrants like many many of the great things that have been accomplished in this nation are because it attracts people from around the world and we get to cherrypick the best and the brightest and so yeah we like the fact that that that the uh the skilled immigration number has been stuck I think at 2 to 250,000 a year for like 20 years is insanity and we should be doing the opposite of of this. We should be figuring out exactly how to increase that number. Brad, staying on the topic of China, the the rare earth um issue has has come back to the top of the headlines and yeah, the the relationship between the two countries still is at an impass. What what are you hearing? What's the latest here? How could it broadly affect companies in the US? You know, well, there was this Wall Street Journal headline that you and I shared. I think it said, "China plays tough on rare earth exports and imparts powerful lessons on the pains of dependence." And it pointed to car companies risk factory shutdowns, you know, over this rare earth magnet shortage. And we had been hearing about this, remember earlier in the year, I think I called it, you know, a kill shot by China can really cause massive disruption u because they really are a global monopolist uh in in the production of key magnets in almost every electric uh motor and electric parts. And so the real question is, you know, is there a way out of this? How do we see this, you know, playing out? And I see a real parallel, Bill, here between rare earths and AI chips. Okay. In both instances, each country views them as existential, right? China views AI chips as existential because they know AGI is critical to national security, national economic security, etc. We view these magnets as existential because we got to keep our critical industries going. We use this to not only build electric motors that go in our Teslas, but we use them in electric motors that go into uh parts that are critical to our in to our military. So, I was thinking about this, right? President Xi's talking or uh President uh Trump is talking to Shei on Friday, a couple days from now. And if I were the president, what would I do? I think I would trade rare earths for access to US AI chips. Specifically, this now deprecated Blackwell 30 chip. And let me let me explain why. Let me maybe make, you know, four or five points as to why I think this would be a great trade for the US at this point in time. Okay, number one, this, you know, this B30 is this deprecated chip. So, one of the concerns we had about the H20 was that there was too too much high bandwidth memory on it, right? And that that if you cluster enough of them together could be used for training. So, what they did on the B30 is they took it took HBM off it all together and it also doesn't use this co-ass from TSMC. So, it gives them a chip that's competitive in the market, but it actually deprecates it from a training perspective. It still provides a big gap to where the US Frontier chips are, the Blackwell 200 and 300, but it is competitive in the Chinese market. And so what does that do? We've talked about this the last few weeks. That keeps, you know, half of the world's researchers and the developers in the AI ecosystem are in China. It keeps them in that CUDA ecosystem, allows Nvidia to compete, and I think slows down their ability to run the table around the rest of the world. I think when we ban chips to China, it's going to accelerate Huawei, like we just talked about, unintended consequences. It's going to bring everybody into their developer ecosystem, and it's going to reduce the amount of of developers in the in the NVIDIA ecosystem. So, I think that's a bad thing. Yeah. Number two, selling them these chips, right, which I don't think materially advances their cause on AI, generates billions and billions of dollars of taxes to the US government. Right? It reduces our trade deficit. Remember, if we're selling them $40 billion worth of chips and all of a sudden we take it to zero, we've just increased our trade deficit by $40 billion. And finally, it produces billions in revenue or in profits to Nvidia, which they can then plow back in to making sure that Nvidia stays at the front of the AI race, which is a proxy for the US staying in front in AI. So, that's point two. On point three, it gets us right if we do this trade and I don't know that China would do this trade, but if we did this trade, then it would get us access to those rare earths right now, which is absolutely critical. And it buys us time to stand up our own rare earth supply. There's no doubt what this moment has revealed to both China and to the United States is that we have to get back to our critical industries, precision manufacturing, rarers, etc. But that's going to take years to do. And China, I'm sure, is saying to themselves, we've got to wean our dependency off of Nvidia. But it also takes them uh years to do. So, it allows us to continue to build that out without the disruption. If we don't do this, then we're going to have a massively disrupted economy over the next six quarters, slowing down economic growth and causing problems and critical shortages in parts to the military, in parts to our US auto industry, etc. Yeah. So I would say the the next point let I'll call this the final one and then I want to get your reaction. Right. If we keep the chip ban in place here's my biggest concern. I think it dramatically increases uh the chances that China is forced to move on Taiwan. Right? We're out there telling everybody in the world that AI is totally existential. We have lots of our leaders who are saying AGI is going to be eclipsed within the next two to three years. But yet we're telling one of the largest economic powers on the planet, but we're going to prevent you from having it. Right? And so there's a way they they can they can say, well, if that is so existential as a risk to our country, we just have to go take Taiwan, which I don't think I think would be horrible for the United States. By the way, I think it'd be terrible for China as well. uh but it would be a hugely risky event in the world particularly because the US needs another three to four years to diversify our supply chain away from China. Yeah. So um three three reactions to this first, you know, and and they're all in agreement, but yeah, it'd be tough to balance trade if if if we don't let them have the stuff we're really good at. like the the stuff you trade like I mean this is comparative this is like economics 101 like the the country you know you sell the stuff you're best at so if you take that off the table they're not going to buy our crap and so like there's no way to get to a trade balance if you're taking our best stuff off the table I totally agree on Taiwan I I've made this point for a while I think Jeffrey Sachs makes the same point you you need to be careful that the actions you're taking aren't aren't the exact ones ones that encourage that to happen the most quickly. Um, and then thirdly, you know, part of why we're in this battle over these these rare earth components is that we we did these export controls and it wasn't just about the Nvidia chips. I think recently we are trying to tell the world they can't buy the Huawei chips. So this is outside of America trying to enforce an export ban on China's products, selling into Europe, selling into South America. I I think that is, you know, something that is is beyond the scope of what our government should be capable of doing. And I've talked about this in the past, like I expect, you know, ASML to just ignore us telling them they can't or can't do something. And I worry and I I've mentioned this before, but I worry that rather than build a wall around China, we're going to build a wall around America. Yep. Well, it's it's well said and and listen, I think huge credit goes to uh David Sax and Howard Lutnik so far for repealing the the the Biden diffusion rule by by reopening up the global markets, making sure America's running as fast as we can, the American AI stack can win around the world. I think it's a closer call for them on US chips to China, but this deprecated chip, I hope they take a close look at it. I think it would be a great win-win trade uh for both countries. We need those rare earths. And by the way, I'm not saying that this is a permanent state of nature. Think about this, Bill. Today, we have about 0% of of of leading edge chips fabbed outside of Taiwan, right? Almost nothing in the United States. And by 2020 or by 2030, so in four or 5 years from now, people think that we'll have upwards of 15 to 20% leading edge capacity in the United States, which is a huge step forward. I saw a presentation this week involving uh uh the United Arab Emirates where if they were to build an advanced fab with TSMC and give the US some sovereign influence over this fab right so if it was a joint deal that we could increase the market share of the United States advance uh advanced nodes to almost 40 or 50% in four years that would be an extraordinary rebalancing of the global supply chain when it comes to advanced chips But we're not going to do that if we're if we're in a war, right? And so it would seem to me that now would be the time that you would find, you know, this reasonable middle ground. We would run like hell to build out capability in Arizona and in other countries like the UAE that are friendly to us, you know, uh where we're building out this this leading edge capability. It would seem to me a much smarter policy uh than uh pursuing the one that we're on now where we have global embargos, the Chinese on rarers and us on chips. Enough said on that. I want to jump I know that we're we're we're time short. Let's let's talk a little bit about just what's going on in the market. You had some thoughts. Well, I mean I'm I'm more interested in hearing your thoughts. So you you were you were cautious at the beginning of the year. you got less cautious that the market has rebounded yet many of the biggest issues that I think people care about the the whether or not we can get some agreement with China what's going to happen with the tariffs and there's new information on that judges blocking and not blocking the the the tariff talk and then the debt issue which now you know is is there's a whole bunch of of noise you know being stirred up by Elon you know now saying he doesn't support the big beautiful bill. So there's there seems to me to me to be as much uncertainty as as there's ever been this year. But I'm very curious on your take. Well, the market's clearly not uh not agreeing with you at the moment, Bill. Um you know, we've had this incredible bounce. The NASDAQ's up 20% from its intraday lows. Um the S now it's it's just above flat for the year, maybe up 1%. The S&amp;P also has had a huge balance now up like 2% for the year. Um, yes, I think it was on May 2nd or early in May where where we talked about us changing the flight path because I saw this approach to getting to the other side of tariffs, the Bessant consensus winning, signing the reconciliation bill that would extend the tax cuts um, and have new tax stimulus. And so, as I sit here today, like the the bounce makes a lot of sense to me. But where we go from here matters a lot. And so what are the key things that I'm looking at? Well, first on tariffs. China is the big enchilada. The president's talking with President Xi on Friday. And you have to believe that the Bessant consensus or or or accord uh negotiated in Geneva that we are going to get to a status where global tariffs are going to land in that territory you know on a on a blended basis around the world of you know 10 15%. Right? So, we talked about are they going to be trillions or are they going to be hundreds of billions? It's got to land in that lower quadrant or I think the market moves lower. And I think that's still where we're headed, but they're definitely the the topic we just talked about. Um there's some binary outcomes I think as it relates to us and China. It looks like Europe is making good progress. Now, on the reconciliation bill, it looked like that was making incredible progress. I still think it will. Listen, I think that Elon has appropriately uh you know pointed out that the challenges with the debt, but I would really encourage people to look at this Ray Dallio piece and also what Bessant has now been saying. They call it 333, but it's how to get us to 3% GDP growth, right? And how to get us to a debt to GDP ratio of 3%. You can't just cut $2 trillion in a single year. That would be an 800 basis point headwind to GDP. it would throw us into a a recession if not depression like like state um because you have so remember government spending is a component of GDP and so there it's about what is the flight path and I would like to see Bessant lay out this four five six-year plan to this 3% debt to GDP ratio it's not going to happen in the reconciliation bill because again as as many people have discussed the reconciliation bill does not touch uh discretionary ary spending that will come by way of the recision act that was just sent to Congress and the speaker of the house has said that he's going to vote on and I expect that they will pass. So there's you know I think it's a confusing set of of issues but to be clear I think that we need to see the rec uh uh the the reconciliation bill passed because that's what extends the tax cuts which I think are critical. But in the absence of that, you get a $4 trillion tax increase and markets go a lot lower. In addition to that, the no tax on tips, the no tax on overtime, the uh the ability to uh have a deduction against your social security taxes, that's probably three or 400 billion of new stimulus to the economy. That's what's going to give you the growth bill to get you back to 3%. So, I think if you're a market participant, I believe that we're going to land the plane on both of those. And if you believe that we're going to land the plane, then I see uh accelerating economic growth in the back half of the year and into next year. But this is, you know, be optimistic, right? But but the proof is is is in the pudding. We've got to see those things land there. And if they don't, I expect the market will be back down 10 to 15%. Um which is where we were just a few weeks ago. So there's still a lot of volatility um out there. There's been a lot of talk about these the 10-year rates bill. Yeah. And one thing I just want to point out because the 10-year rates have gone from um 42 to bounce back up to 445 and a lot of people are hand ringing about this and and saying this just goes to prove that we're in this national uh you know debt spiral and nobody wants to buy our debt but I just want to point out I think they compare them to Spain and other countries that were in uh you know liquidity crisis not too long ago. Yeah. But I just want to point out like like several other people have yields the 10ear has been in a 4 to 5% range bill for the last two years and you know this is far like there were people remember Larry Summers at the end of 2022 saying that the 10 years going to 7%. Right? That's what caused a hyperin we're going to have hyperinflation. What have we seen? Core PCE just came out lower than people expected. Right? We're now on a core PCE run rate. That causes me to believe that the Fed will now reduce rates. The market's saying they're going to cut rates twice in the back half of the year. Why? Because we're still in restrictive territory. The Fed has said we're in restrictive territory. They've said there's not a new neutral rate. And so the bond market to me at at at these levels uh is not that concerning. Seriously, I would like a an important national discussion on a balanced budget amendment or some other mechanism to get us to this 3% target. I think that's super important. But if you're I if you're saying, "Okay, should I be really scared that we're on a path to 7% interest rates over the course of the next 6 months?" No. I think you could very well find yourself in the exact opposite position. I think if they sign the reconciliation bill and they land the deal on China, right, and then you get a couple rate cuts in the back half of the year because inflation continues to come in, this market's going to be a lot higher. So, don't take yourself out of the game, but I think it is a wait and see approach. And what do you put the probability on the deal with China coming together? Um, I put it as pretty high de high high probability and and and you know remember I was asked about this on CNBC in the in the heat of the crisis and I said it you know because Trump was putting Navaro on the Sunday talk shows and Bessant and they had two very different points of view and I said you have door one door choose and the president's got to choose right and I said at the time I think at the end of the day he wrote a book called the art of the deal he is a negotiator he is a fair trader he wants a fair deal for the United States. He wants to reonshore critical national industries, but I do not think he wants to slam the brakes on the global economy and put the global economy into a recession, which he knows it would. And so, I expect we'll get a deal done with China. But, um, that means that China's got to step up and and and be willing to deal as well. Um, I think the tea leaves read pretty pretty good on that, but but we'll know a lot more over the course of the next few weeks. Okay, we'll watch. Okay, I have a couple couple things for our lightning round, Bill. Okay. You know, you talked to we had a great discussion last week on this Delaware situation and I think you you've been out in front on this telling companies that if you sat on their board, they got to consider exiting Delaware otherwise they may be breaching their fiduciary duties. I saw Fortune magazine um actually quoted you wrote a their headline was something's a right in Delaware. Uh, new study reveals lawyers in tiny US states are winning fee multipliers from major companies up to 66 times their normal hourly rate. You got two and a half million views on this Delaware clip after you got a little promo from from Sachs and Elon. Um, but was there any feedback you got this week? Did you hear from companies? Are they reconsidering whether or not they want to be in Delaware? Oh, I think I think a lot of companies are reconsidering and and you know, there were two there are two things that I would add that that have become clear to me, you know, since then. But but one, people talk about, well, who who is at risk here? I I I think it's actually the highest profile companies that are at risk because they're the ones that, you know, an activist judge is going to want to make a a exception out of. And so, you know, maybe maybe if you're a smaller market cap company, maybe it's not something you need to think about with urgency. And we we discussed this. The the reason people were in Delaware is because it was predictable. That that was the if someone when you're a young entrepreneur and they say, "Oh, incorporating Delaware, you're like, what? Why would I do that?" And someone says, "Oh, well, they've had corporate law for a long time. It's very predictable." And, "Oh, okay." And so, everybody does it. Well, that's no longer true. And so I I think everyone has to consider it. The other thing that I verified that I I think is really important, we live in an age where companies are staying private longer. I think many entrepreneurs, many board members think that that litigation around shareholder events are tied solely to public companies. That is not true. If you're incorporated in Delaware, you can be sued. you know, if your shares are trading more freely in the secondary market, you're you're at risk as well. And so, I would just say just because you're not public doesn't mean this shouldn't matter to you. And in fact, I can imagine someone who has an activist bent being particularly excited about bringing a case against a uh a private large unicorn. You're certainly influencing it there. I can tell you this. I've had a couple companies ask me in the wake of that whether or not they should be reinccorporating. So I I I think there is a movement of foot. Uh something else we talked about in in relation to corporate governance bill on a prior pod and this is these proxy advisors ISS and Glass Lewis, right? They have a monopoly on giving advice particularly to passive shareholders about how they should vote their shares in in in the annual vote. And we've come to discover, you know, that they're they're probably not the best and most objective when it comes to doing it or they may have political agendas that are misaligned with your own. Senator Hagerty had a tweet yesterday that caught my eye. He said, "The two largest proxy adviserss have 97% market share. They wield control over millions and millions of votes. They've hijacked corporate governance, and an investigation into their anti-competitive and abusive practices is long overdue. I hadn't heard about this in in you know a few months but any reactions to that? Yeah, I don't know if you remember, but when we did we did an episode early on about stockbased comp and before that I had reached out to ISS to talk about how they come up with their different you know philosophies and it was very clear to me that there was no one there thinking from a first principles uh perspective about you know what are the types of policies or actions that a board could take that a comp committee could take that would align interests with shareholders and you I would think that if you run a large index fund, if you're Black Rockck or whatever, and you're voting, you know, your shares for or against different policies, that the number one thing you should care about, perhaps the only thing you should care about is whether they're looking after the interest of shareholders. And we clearly crept away from that in the past, you know, 10 or 20 years. the senator that you're talking about said on on on when he was giving this talk that that these two companies are now both over 80% owned outside the US and and wow and that they both have corporate philosophies that extend beyond what we just talked about which you know I've always I grew up in the school that fiduciary duty is the number one responsibility of all board members and that means looking after the you know shareholders and So, um I think you know that that two things should happen. You know, first I I I do wonder and and this would be a question for the senator like why are so many companies paying attention to what these people say? Are they just loyal? I mean, are they just lazy? Do they do they not want to do the work themselves? And admittedly, if you run an index fund, you're on thin margins, so maybe you don't have time. Um but they should wake up and realize that they're not um solely looking after the interest of their shareholders and they have other interests in mind. And ironically, and this gets back to policy, one of the key reasons so many companies have super voting is so that these two companies can't tell them what to do. And so, you know, it's ironic because most people think of super voting shares as being less good governance. you know, a lesser form of good governance. But if these companies that are ve measuring you and telling, you know, index investors how to vote aren't looking after shareholder interest, then then you may need to take that step precisely to get away from them. And so I would encourage, you know, the Black Rocks and all the the ETF people to not just simply vote with what these people say. And maybe what we need maybe we need an alternative to these two things. You and I have you know talked about SBC. I mean I think there's a number of things you could use AI that you would put into a model to to say what is the type of good governance that aligns shareholder interests. Um and and maybe be good to see something like that pop up. I love it. I love it. You let's incubate that bill. Okay. Let's incubate that. Anybody out there? Let's find some uh some of the guys who are playing uh the AI founders and engineers who were playing in the altimeter poker game last night. They were looking for ideas. This is a great one. Okay. Well, I would encourage any of our listeners, there may be someone already doing it that's already working on an alternative uh to these two companies. Um and if if you are, reach out to us. We could we could help fund it, help promote it, and uh and it'd be exciting to see. Yeah. No, that'd be great. Well, it's been another good one, buddy. Great seeing you. Uh, until next [Music] As a reminder to everybody, just our
