# Inside OpenAI Enterprise: Forward Deployed Engineering, GPT-5, and More | BG2 Guest Interview

- **Channel:** https://www.youtube.com/@BG2Pod
- **Video ID:** yLTSqBzKG2s
- **Upload Date:** 20250911
- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yLTSqBzKG2s

## Transcript

In San Francisco, you could take a car from one&nbsp; part of SF to the other fully autonomously. As&nbsp;&nbsp; opposed to the digital world, I can't book a&nbsp; ticket online right now. Physical autonomy is&nbsp;&nbsp; ahead of digital autonomy in 2025. I think AI&nbsp; agents are like really in day one here. Like&nbsp;&nbsp; ChatGPT only came out in 2022. The slope&nbsp; I think is incredibly steep. I actually&nbsp;&nbsp; do think self-driving cars have a good amount&nbsp; of scaffolding in the world. You have roads,&nbsp;&nbsp; roads exist. They're pretty standardized.&nbsp; Stoplights. AI agents are just kind of&nbsp;&nbsp; dropped in the middle of nowhere. We'll start&nbsp; with long, short game. I'm short on the entire&nbsp;&nbsp; category of like tooling, evals products.&nbsp; Healthcare is probably the industry that&nbsp;&nbsp; will benefit the most from AI. I think I'm&nbsp; AGI-pilled. You're definitely AGI-pilled.&nbsp;&nbsp; Hey folks, I'm Apoorv Agarwal and today at the&nbsp; OpenAI office, we had a wide ranging conversation&nbsp;&nbsp; about OpenAI's work in enterprise. I have with me&nbsp; the head of engineering and head of product of the&nbsp;&nbsp; OpenAI Platform, Sherwin Wu and Olivier Godement.&nbsp; OpenAI is well known as the creator of ChatGPT,&nbsp;&nbsp; which is a product that billions across the&nbsp; world have come to love and enjoy. But today we&nbsp;&nbsp; dive into the other side of the business, which&nbsp; is OpenAI's work in enterprise. We go deep into&nbsp;&nbsp; their work with specific customers and how OpenAI&nbsp; is transforming large and important industries&nbsp;&nbsp; like healthcare, telecommunications and national&nbsp; security research. We also talk about Sherwin and&nbsp;&nbsp; Olivier's outlook on what's next in AI, what's&nbsp; next in technology and their picks both on the&nbsp;&nbsp; long and short side. This was a lot of fun to do.&nbsp; I hope you really enjoy it. Well, two world-class&nbsp;&nbsp; builders, two people who make look building easy.&nbsp; Sherwin, my Palantir 2013 classmate, tennis buddy,&nbsp;&nbsp; with two stops at Quora and Opendoor through&nbsp; the IPO before joining OpenAI, before ChatGPT,&nbsp;&nbsp; you've now been here for three years and lead&nbsp; engineering for all OpenAI Platform. Olivier,&nbsp;&nbsp; former entrepreneur, winner of the Golden Llama at&nbsp; Stripe, where you were for just under a decade and&nbsp;&nbsp; now lead all of the product at OpenAI Platform.&nbsp; That's right. Thanks for doing it. Thank you.&nbsp;&nbsp; Thanks for having us. As a shareholder, as a&nbsp; thought partner, kicking ideas back and forth,&nbsp;&nbsp; I always learn a lot from you guys. And so it's&nbsp; a treat. It's a real treat to be do this for&nbsp;&nbsp; everybody. You know, I'll open with people know&nbsp; OpenAI as the firm that build ChatGPT, the product&nbsp;&nbsp; that they have in their pocket that comes with&nbsp; them every day to work, to personal lives. But&nbsp;&nbsp; the focus for today is OpenAI for enterprise.&nbsp; You guys lead OpenAI Platform. Tell us about&nbsp;&nbsp; it. What's underneath the OpenAI Platform for B2B&nbsp; for enterprise? Yeah. So this is actually a really&nbsp;&nbsp; interesting question too, because when I joined&nbsp; OpenAI around three years ago to work on the API,&nbsp;&nbsp; it was actually the only product that we had.&nbsp; So I think a lot of people actually forget this,&nbsp;&nbsp; where the original product for OpenAI actually was&nbsp; not ChatGPT. It was a B2B product. It was the API&nbsp;&nbsp; we were catering towards developers. And so I've&nbsp; actually seen, you know, the launch of ChatGPT&nbsp;&nbsp; and all of everything downstream from that. But at&nbsp; its core, I actually think the reason why we have&nbsp;&nbsp; a platform and why we started with an API is it&nbsp; kind of comes back to the OpenAI mission. So our&nbsp;&nbsp; mission obviously is to build AGI, which is pretty&nbsp; hard in and of itself, but also to distribute the&nbsp;&nbsp; benefits of it to everyone in the world, to all&nbsp; of humanity. And, you know, it's pretty clear&nbsp;&nbsp; right now to see ChatGPT doing that, because,&nbsp; you know, my mom, you know, maybe even your&nbsp;&nbsp; parents are using ChatGPT. But we actually view&nbsp; our platform and especially our API and how we&nbsp;&nbsp; work with our customers, our enterprise customers,&nbsp; as our way of getting the benefits of AGI, of AI,&nbsp;&nbsp; to as many people as possible to everyone in every&nbsp; corner of the world. ChatGPT obviously is really,&nbsp;&nbsp; really, really big now. It's, I think, like&nbsp; the fifth largest website in the world. But&nbsp;&nbsp; we actually, by working through developers using&nbsp; our API, we're actually able to reach even more&nbsp;&nbsp; people in, you know, every corner of the world and&nbsp; every different use case that you might have. And&nbsp;&nbsp; especially with some of our enterprise customers,&nbsp; we're able to reach even use cases within&nbsp;&nbsp; businesses and end users of those businesses as&nbsp; well. And so we actually view the platform as&nbsp;&nbsp; kind of our way of fully expressing our mission of&nbsp; getting the benefits of AGI to everyone. And so,&nbsp;&nbsp; concretely though, what the platform actually&nbsp; includes today, the biggest product that we&nbsp;&nbsp; have is obviously our developer platform, which&nbsp; is our API. You know, many developers, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; the majority of the startup ecosystem builds on&nbsp; top of this, as well as a lot of digital natives,&nbsp;&nbsp; Fortune 500 enterprises at this point. We also&nbsp; have a product that we sell to governments as&nbsp;&nbsp; well in the public sector. That's all part of&nbsp; this as well. And also an emerging product line&nbsp;&nbsp; for us in the platform is our enterprise product.&nbsp; So we actually might sell directly to enterprises&nbsp;&nbsp; beyond just a core API offering. Fascinating.&nbsp; And maybe to double down, like, I think B2B is&nbsp;&nbsp; actually quite core to the OpenAI mission. What we&nbsp; mean by distributing AGI benefits is, you know, I&nbsp;&nbsp; want to live in a world where, you know, there are&nbsp; 10x more medicines going out every year. I want to&nbsp;&nbsp; live in a world where, you know, education, public&nbsp; service, civil service, you know, are increasingly&nbsp;&nbsp; optimized to everyone. And, you know, there are a&nbsp; large category of use cases that only go through&nbsp;&nbsp; B2B, frankly, unless you enable the enterprises.&nbsp; And we talk about Palantir, I think that's&nbsp;&nbsp; probably the same thesis at Palantir. It's like,&nbsp; hey, those are the businesses who are actually&nbsp;&nbsp; making stuff happen in the real world. So if you&nbsp; do enable them, if you do accelerate them, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; that's how essentially you benefit, you know, to&nbsp; distribute AGI. Yeah. Well, maybe we can double&nbsp;&nbsp; click into that, Olivier. You know, the reach for&nbsp; chat is obviously wide, billions of users. But for&nbsp;&nbsp; enterprise, it's maybe tell us about it. Maybe we&nbsp; go deep into a customer example or two. And what&nbsp;&nbsp; is an organization that we have helped transform&nbsp; maybe? And at what layers? So if I were to step&nbsp;&nbsp; back, like, we started our B2B efforts with the&nbsp; API like a few years ago. Initially, the customers&nbsp;&nbsp; were startups, developers, indie hackers,&nbsp; extremely technically sophisticated people,&nbsp;&nbsp; like, you know, who are building, like, you know,&nbsp; cool new stuff, essentially, and taking massive,&nbsp;&nbsp; like, you know, market that they can risk. So we&nbsp; still have a bunch of customers in that category,&nbsp;&nbsp; and we love them, and we keep building with&nbsp; them. On top of that, you know, over the past&nbsp;&nbsp; couple of years, we've been working one more&nbsp; with traditional enterprises, and also, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; digital natives. Essentially, I think, basically,&nbsp; everyone woke up, like, with their GPT, and, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; those models are working. There is a ton of value,&nbsp; and they could see, essentially, many use cases&nbsp;&nbsp; in the enterprise. A couple of examples which I&nbsp; like the most. One which is very both fresh and,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, is quite cool. We've been working a lot&nbsp; with T-Mobile. T-Mobile. So T-Mobile, leading,&nbsp;&nbsp; like, US telco operator. T-Mobile has, like,&nbsp; you know, a massive customer support load. Like,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, people asking, like, you know, "Hey, I&nbsp; was charged, like, that amount of money was going&nbsp;&nbsp; on," or, you know, "My cell phone, like, isn't&nbsp; working anymore." A massive, like, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; share of that load is, like, you know, voice&nbsp; calls. Like, people want to talk to someone.&nbsp;&nbsp; And so for them, like, you know, to be able to&nbsp; essentially automate, like, more and more, and,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, to help, like, people, like,&nbsp; self-serve in a way, like, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; debug their subscription was pretty big. And so&nbsp; we've been working with T-Mobile pretty much for&nbsp;&nbsp; the past year. At that point, to basically&nbsp; automate, like, not only the text support,&nbsp;&nbsp; but also voice support. And so today, like, you&nbsp; know, there are features, like, in the T-Mobile&nbsp;&nbsp; app, that if you call, are actually handled by&nbsp; OpenAI models behind the scenes. And, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; it does sound, like, supernatural, like, you know,&nbsp; human-sounding latency, quality-wise. So that&nbsp;&nbsp; one was really fun. A second one, which is very--&nbsp; Just on that, can I ask you a follow-up question?&nbsp;&nbsp; So we've got text models. We've got voice models,&nbsp; maybe even video models someday that are deployed&nbsp;&nbsp; at T-Mobile. But what above the models or adjacent&nbsp; to the models might we have helped T-Mobile with,&nbsp;&nbsp; for example? Yeah, there is a ton we're doing. The&nbsp; first one is, you know, you have to put yourself&nbsp;&nbsp; in the shoes of an enterprise buyer. Like,&nbsp; their goal is to automate, you know, reduce,&nbsp;&nbsp; like, you know, optimize customer support. And&nbsp; you're going from, like, a model, like, tokens in,&nbsp;&nbsp; tokens out. To that case, it's hard. And so, you&nbsp; know, first, like, there's a lot of design, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, system design. We do have actually now&nbsp; forward deployed engineers, who are helping us&nbsp;&nbsp; quite a bit. Forward deployed engineers. Yeah, I&nbsp; mean-- Yeah, that's familiar to the-- We borrow&nbsp;&nbsp; the term from Palantir. Yeah, it's a great term.&nbsp; Were you an FD at Palantir? I was not an FD I was&nbsp;&nbsp; on, I think they called it the dev side, right?&nbsp; It's like software engineering. I was also only&nbsp;&nbsp; an intern at Palantir. But, yeah, it's a great&nbsp; term. I think it accurately describes what we're&nbsp;&nbsp; asking folks to do, which is, like, embed very&nbsp; deeply with customers and, honestly, like, build&nbsp;&nbsp; things specific to their systems. They're deployed&nbsp; onto these customers. But, yeah, we are obviously&nbsp;&nbsp; growing and hiring that team quite a bit because&nbsp; they've been very effective, like, at T-Mobile.&nbsp;&nbsp; Four years of my life. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Forward&nbsp; deployed. But go ahead. So, forward deployed&nbsp;&nbsp; engineering. Forward deployed engineers and the&nbsp; sort of, like, systems and, like, integrations&nbsp;&nbsp; they're doing is, you know, first, like, you&nbsp; know, you have to orchestrate those models. Like,&nbsp;&nbsp; those models are not just, you know, those models,&nbsp; like, know nothing about, like, you know, the CRM,&nbsp;&nbsp; like, you know, and, like, what's going on.&nbsp; And so, you have to plug the model to, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; many, many different tools. Many of those, like,&nbsp; tools, like, in the enterprise, do not even have,&nbsp;&nbsp; like, APIs or, like, clean interfaces, right? It's&nbsp; the first time they're being exposed, like, you&nbsp;&nbsp; know, to a third party system. And so, there is a&nbsp; lot of, you know, standing up, like, you know, API&nbsp;&nbsp; gateways, like, tools, connecting. Then you have&nbsp; to essentially, like, define what good looks like,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know. Again, like, to put in your exercise&nbsp; for everyone, like, you know, defining, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; a golden set of evals is, you know, easier than&nbsp; it sounds. Harder than it sounds. Yeah. And so,&nbsp;&nbsp; we've been spending, like, a bunch of time&nbsp; with them. Evals are important. Evals are super&nbsp;&nbsp; important. Especially, like, audio evals. Evals&nbsp; are, like, extra hard to grade and get right. But,&nbsp;&nbsp; like, the bulk of the use case here is actually&nbsp; audio. And, like, we have, like, I don't know,&nbsp;&nbsp; five minute, like, call transfer, how do you&nbsp; actually know that the right thing happened?&nbsp;&nbsp; It's a pretty tough problem. Yeah, it's pretty&nbsp; tough. And then, you know, actually nailing down,&nbsp;&nbsp; like, the quality of the customer experience,&nbsp; like, you know, until it feels natural. And here,&nbsp;&nbsp; latency and interruptions. They're really, like,&nbsp; you know, important part. We shipped in GA an API,&nbsp;&nbsp; real-time API. I think it was last week. A couple&nbsp; of weeks ago, yeah. Yeah, it was just last week,&nbsp;&nbsp; I think. Which is, like, a beautiful work&nbsp; of engineering. You know, there was a really&nbsp;&nbsp; cracked team behind the scenes. Which basically&nbsp; allows us, like, to get, like, the most, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; natural sounding, like, you know, voice experience&nbsp; without having, like, these weird interruptions on&nbsp;&nbsp; your lag where you can feel that, essentially,&nbsp; the thing is off. So, yeah. Cobbling all that&nbsp;&nbsp; together, you know, and you get, like, you know,&nbsp; a really good experience. Yeah, that's a lot more&nbsp;&nbsp; than just models. Yeah. One actually really&nbsp; great thing that I think we've gotten from the&nbsp;&nbsp; T-Mobile experience is actually working with them&nbsp; to improve our models themselves. So for example,&nbsp;&nbsp; the last real-time GA last week, we obviously&nbsp; released a new snapshot, the GA snapshot. And&nbsp;&nbsp; a lot of the improvements that we actually&nbsp; got into the model came out of, you know, the&nbsp;&nbsp; learnings that we have from T-Mobile. It brings&nbsp; in a lot of other changes from other customers,&nbsp;&nbsp; but because we were so deeply embedded into&nbsp; T-Mobile and we were able to understand what&nbsp;&nbsp; good looks like for them, we were able to bring&nbsp; that to some of our models. That makes sense.&nbsp;&nbsp; So, we are working with a large customer with tens&nbsp; of millions of users, if not hundreds of millions,&nbsp;&nbsp; and the before and after is on the support&nbsp; side, both tech support internally and then&nbsp;&nbsp; their customer support. Yeah. Makes sense. Yeah.&nbsp; Is there another one that you guys can share? I&nbsp;&nbsp; like a lot Amgen. Amgen, the healthcare business.&nbsp; Amgen, yeah. So, we are working quite a bit with&nbsp;&nbsp; healthcare companies. Amgen is one of the leading,&nbsp; like, healthcare companies. They specialize into&nbsp;&nbsp; drugs for cancer or, like, you know, inflammatory&nbsp; diseases that are based out of LA. And we've been&nbsp;&nbsp; working, essentially, with Amgen to essentially&nbsp; speed up, like, the drug, like, development&nbsp;&nbsp; and the conversation process. So, you know, the&nbsp; sort of the north star is, like, pretty bold. And&nbsp;&nbsp; it's really interesting, like, when you similarly,&nbsp; like, you know, we embedded, like, pretty deeply&nbsp;&nbsp; with Amgen to understand what are their&nbsp; needs. And it's really interesting, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; when I look at those healthcare companies, I feel&nbsp; like they are two big buckets of needs. One is,&nbsp;&nbsp; like, pure R&amp;D. It's like, you know, you're&nbsp; seeing, like, a massive amount of data and, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; you have super smart scientists who are trying to,&nbsp; you know, come by, test out things, you know. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; that's one bucket. A second bucket is, like, you&nbsp; know, much more, like, you know, common across&nbsp;&nbsp; other industries. It's, like, pure, like, you&nbsp; know, admin, document authoring, document-scribing&nbsp;&nbsp; work, which is, you know, by the time, like, your&nbsp; R&amp;D team has essentially locked the recipe of a&nbsp;&nbsp; medication, getting that medication to market is&nbsp; a ton of work. Like, you have to submit to, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; value regulatory bodies, get a ton of reviews.&nbsp; And you know, when we looked at essentially those&nbsp;&nbsp; problems, what we knew, what models were capable&nbsp; of, we saw, like, you know, a ton of benefits,&nbsp;&nbsp; a ton of opportunities to automate and, you&nbsp; know, augment essentially the work of those&nbsp;&nbsp; teams. And so, yeah, Amgen has been, like, a top&nbsp; customer of GPT-5, for instance. Wow. I mean,&nbsp;&nbsp; this could be hundreds of millions of lives if a&nbsp; new drug is developed faster. Yeah, exactly. Huge&nbsp;&nbsp; impact. So that's, you know, that's, I think,&nbsp; one good example of, like, a kind of impact on&nbsp;&nbsp; which you need to enable enterprises, like, to&nbsp; do it. Right. You know? And so I think we're&nbsp;&nbsp; going to do more and more of those. And yeah,&nbsp; frankly, like, you know, on a personal level,&nbsp;&nbsp; like, it's a delight, you know. If I can play,&nbsp; like, you know, a tiny role, essentially, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; doubling, like, you know, the kind of medication&nbsp; that people, you know, get in the real world,&nbsp;&nbsp; that feels like, you know, a pretty good, like,&nbsp; you know, achievement. Huge. Huge, huge. I know&nbsp;&nbsp; you had one as well. So one of my favorite&nbsp; deployments that we've done more recently,&nbsp;&nbsp; actually, is with the Los Alamos National Labs. So&nbsp; this is the, like, government, national research&nbsp;&nbsp; lab that the U.S. government is running in Los&nbsp; Alamos, New Mexico. It's also where, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; the Manhattan Project happened back in the 40s&nbsp; and 50s, back when it was the secret project. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, after that, they ended up formalizing&nbsp; it as a city and a program, and then now it's a&nbsp;&nbsp; pretty sizable national laboratory. This one is&nbsp; very interesting because one, just the depth of&nbsp;&nbsp; impact here is, like, unimaginable for me, it's&nbsp; like on the scale of Amgen and some of these other&nbsp;&nbsp; larger companies. But, you know, obviously&nbsp; they're doing a lot of actual new research there,&nbsp;&nbsp; so a lot of new science. They're doing a lot of&nbsp; stuff with our Defense Department and Defense&nbsp;&nbsp; use cases as well. So very intense, you know, very&nbsp; intense stuff. But the other thing that's actually&nbsp;&nbsp; very interesting about this one was that it's&nbsp; also a story of a very, like, bespoke and, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; new type of deployment that we've done. So because&nbsp; they are so, they're a government lab, they're so,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, restrictive and high security and high&nbsp; clearance with a lot of their things, we couldn't&nbsp;&nbsp; just do a normal deployment with them. They&nbsp; couldn't, you know, you can't have people doing&nbsp;&nbsp; national security research just hitting our APIs.&nbsp; And so we actually did a custom on-prem deployment&nbsp;&nbsp; with them onto one of their supercomputers called&nbsp; Venado. And so this actually involves a bunch of,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, very bespoke work with some FDEs,&nbsp; also with a lot of our developer team,&nbsp;&nbsp; to actually bring one of our reasoning models,&nbsp; o3, into their laboratory, into an air-gapped,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, supercomputer Venado and actually deploy&nbsp; it and get it installed to work on their hardware,&nbsp;&nbsp; on their networking stack, and actually run it&nbsp; in this particular environment. And so it was&nbsp;&nbsp; actually very interesting because we literally&nbsp; had to bring the weights of the model physically&nbsp;&nbsp; into their supercomputer in an environment,&nbsp; by the way, where you're not allowed to have,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, it's very locked down for a good reason.&nbsp; They're not allowed to have cell phones or like&nbsp;&nbsp; any electronics with you as well. So I think that&nbsp; was a very unique challenge. And then the other&nbsp;&nbsp; interesting thing about this deployment is just&nbsp; how it's being used, right? So the interesting&nbsp;&nbsp; thing is because it's so locked down and on-prem,&nbsp; we actually do not have much visibility into&nbsp;&nbsp; exactly what they're doing with it, but we do&nbsp; have, you know, they give us feedback. Yeah,&nbsp;&nbsp; yeah. They actually do have some telemetry, but&nbsp; it's, you know, within their own systems. But&nbsp;&nbsp; we do know that it's, you know, being used for a&nbsp; bunch of different things is being used for aiding&nbsp;&nbsp; them in terms of speeding up their experiments.&nbsp; They have a lot of data analysis use cases,&nbsp;&nbsp; a lot of notebooks that they're running with&nbsp; reams of data that they're trying to process.&nbsp;&nbsp; They're actually using it as a thought partner,&nbsp; which is something that's pretty interesting to&nbsp;&nbsp; me. o3 is like pretty smart as a model. And a lot&nbsp; of these people are tackling really tough, you&nbsp;&nbsp; know, novel research problems. And a lot of times&nbsp; they're kind of using o3 and going back and forth&nbsp;&nbsp; with it on their experiment design on like what&nbsp; they actually should be using it for, which is,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, something that we couldn't really say&nbsp; about our older models. And so, yeah, it's just&nbsp;&nbsp; being used for a lot of different use cases for&nbsp; the National Lab. And the other cool thing is it's&nbsp;&nbsp; actually being shared between Los Alamos and some&nbsp; of the other labs, Lawrence Livermore, Sandia as&nbsp;&nbsp; well, because it's the supercomputer setup where&nbsp; they can all kind of connect with it remotely.&nbsp;&nbsp; Fascinating. I mean, we've just gone through three&nbsp; pretty large scale enterprise deployments, right,&nbsp;&nbsp; which might touch tens if not hundreds of millions&nbsp; of people. But there was this on the other side of&nbsp;&nbsp; this is the MIT report that came out a couple of&nbsp; weeks ago. 95% of AI deployments don't work. A&nbsp;&nbsp; bunch of, you know, scary headlines that even&nbsp; shook the markets for a couple of days. Like,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, put this in perspective, like&nbsp; for every deployment that works, there's&nbsp;&nbsp; presumably a bunch that don't work. So maybe&nbsp; we can, you know, maybe talk about that. Like,&nbsp;&nbsp; what does it take to build a successful enterprise&nbsp; deployment, a successful customer deployment and&nbsp;&nbsp; the counterfactual based on all your experience&nbsp; serving all these large enterprises? I think at&nbsp;&nbsp; that point, I may have worked with like a couple&nbsp; of hundreds. I think. Couple of hundreds. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; okay, I'm going to pattern match. What I've seen&nbsp; being like clear leading indicator of success.&nbsp;&nbsp; Number one is like the interesting combination of&nbsp; like top down like buy in and like enabling like,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, very clear group of like a tiger team,&nbsp; essentially, like, you know, the enterprise which&nbsp;&nbsp; sometimes a mix of like OpenAI, like, you know,&nbsp; enterprise employee. So, you know, typically,&nbsp;&nbsp; like, you know, you take like T-Mobile, like the&nbsp; top leadership was like extremely boring, like&nbsp;&nbsp; it's a priority. But then letting the team&nbsp; like, you know, organize and be like, okay,&nbsp;&nbsp; if you want to start small, start small, you know,&nbsp; and then you can scale it up, essentially. So that&nbsp;&nbsp; would be part number one. So top down buying and a&nbsp; bottom called a tiger team. Tiger team, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; people like, you know, a mix of like technical&nbsp; skills and like people who just have like the&nbsp;&nbsp; organizational knowledge, like institutional&nbsp; knowledge, you know, it's really funny,&nbsp;&nbsp; like in the enterprise, like customer support, a&nbsp; good example, like what we found is that the vast&nbsp;&nbsp; majority of the knowledge is in people's heads.&nbsp; Right. Right. Which is probably like a thing that,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, we have these like in general, but&nbsp; like, you know, you take a customer support,&nbsp;&nbsp; you would think that, you know, everything is like&nbsp; perfectly documented, etc. The reality is like the&nbsp;&nbsp; standard like operating procedures, like the SOPs&nbsp; are larger than people said. And so unless you&nbsp;&nbsp; have that tiger team, like mix of like technical&nbsp; and like, you know, subject matter expert,&nbsp;&nbsp; really hard like to get something out of the&nbsp; ground. That would be one. Two would be evals&nbsp;&nbsp; first. Like, whatever we define as good evals,&nbsp; like that gives like a clearly clear common goal&nbsp;&nbsp; for people to hit. Whenever, like, you know, the&nbsp; customer like fails to come up with good evals,&nbsp;&nbsp; it's a moving target. Essentially, you know, if&nbsp; you've made it or not. And you know, evals are&nbsp;&nbsp; much harder than what it looks to get done. And&nbsp; evals also oftentimes need to come up bottom up,&nbsp;&nbsp; right? Because all of these things are kind of in&nbsp; people's heads, in the actual operator's heads.&nbsp;&nbsp; Like it's actually very hard to have a top-down&nbsp; mandate of like, you got like, this is how the&nbsp;&nbsp; evals should look. A lot of it needs the bottoms&nbsp; up adoption. Right. Yeah. Yeah. And so we'd be&nbsp;&nbsp; dealing quite a bit of tooling on evals. We have&nbsp; like an evals product and you know, we're working&nbsp;&nbsp; on more to essentially solve like, you know, that&nbsp; problem or, you know, make it as easy as we can.&nbsp;&nbsp; The last thing is, you know, you want to help&nbsp; climb, essentially. You have your evals, the goal&nbsp;&nbsp; is to get to 99%. You start at like, you know, 46.&nbsp; You know, how do you get there? And here, frankly,&nbsp;&nbsp; I think oftentimes, like, you know, a mix of like,&nbsp; like, I will say like almost wisdom from people&nbsp;&nbsp; who've done it before. Like you know, a lot of&nbsp; that is like, you know, like art, sometimes more&nbsp;&nbsp; than science. Like, you know, knowing like the&nbsp; course of the model, the behavior, sometimes we&nbsp;&nbsp; even need to fine tune ourselves, the models, you&nbsp; know, when there are some clear limitation and,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, being patient, getting your way, you&nbsp; know, up there and then, you know, ship. Can we go&nbsp;&nbsp; under the hood a little bit? You know, one of the&nbsp; things that we think about a lot is autonomy more&nbsp;&nbsp; broadly, right? What is the makeup of autonomy on&nbsp; one side, you know, in San Francisco, you could&nbsp;&nbsp; take a car from one part of SF to the other fully&nbsp; autonomously. No humans involved. No, you press&nbsp;&nbsp; a button Yeah, we love the way it does. They've&nbsp; done billions of rides. I think it was like what,&nbsp;&nbsp; three and a half billion rides on the test, this&nbsp; is on the Tesla FSD. I think we almost done like&nbsp;&nbsp; million, tens of millions of rides. That's a lot&nbsp; of autonomy. In the physical world, as opposed to&nbsp;&nbsp; the digital world, I can't book a ticket online&nbsp; right now. There's all sorts of problems that&nbsp;&nbsp; happen if I have my operator try to book a ticket.&nbsp; And it's very counterintuitive because the bar&nbsp;&nbsp; for physical safety is so much higher. The bar&nbsp; for physical safety is higher than the human's&nbsp;&nbsp; capability because lives are at stake. The bar for&nbsp; digital safety, not that high because all you're&nbsp;&nbsp; going to lose is money. Nobody's life is at stake.&nbsp; But yet, physical autonomy is ahead of digital&nbsp;&nbsp; autonomy in 2025, which seems counterintuitive.&nbsp; Like, why is that the case at a technical level?&nbsp;&nbsp; Why is it that what should sound easier is&nbsp; actually a lot harder? Yeah, so I think there&nbsp;&nbsp; are kind of two things at play here. And I really&nbsp; like the analogy with self-driving cars because&nbsp;&nbsp; they've actually been one of the best applications&nbsp; of AI, I think, that I've used recently. But I&nbsp;&nbsp; think there are two things in play. One of them is&nbsp; honestly just the timelines. We've been working on&nbsp;&nbsp; self-driving cars for so long. I remember back in&nbsp; 2014, it was kind of like the advent of this and&nbsp;&nbsp; everyone was like, "Oh, it's happening in five&nbsp; years." It turns out it took like 10, 15 years&nbsp;&nbsp; or so for this time. So there's been a long time&nbsp; for the technology to really mature. And I think&nbsp;&nbsp; there's probably like dark ages back in like 2015&nbsp; or 2018 or something where it felt like it wasn't&nbsp;&nbsp; going to happen. A trough of disillusionment. Yes,&nbsp; yes, yeah. And then now we're finally seeing it&nbsp;&nbsp; get deployed, which is really exciting. But&nbsp; it has been like, I don't know, 10 years,&nbsp;&nbsp; maybe even 20 years from the very beginning of&nbsp; the research. Whereas I think AI agents are like&nbsp;&nbsp; really in day one here. Like, chat GPT only came&nbsp; out in 2022, so like around three years, like less&nbsp;&nbsp; than three years ago. I actually think what we&nbsp; think about with AI agents and all that really,&nbsp;&nbsp; I think, started with the reasoning paradigm that&nbsp; when we released the o1 preview model back in&nbsp;&nbsp; late last year, I think. And so I actually think&nbsp; this whole reasoning paradigm with AI agents and&nbsp;&nbsp; the robustness that those bring has only really&nbsp; unfolded for like a year, less than a year,&nbsp;&nbsp; really. And so I know you had a chart in your blog&nbsp; post, which I really like, which the slope is very&nbsp;&nbsp; meaningfully different now. Self-driving started&nbsp; very, very early. Slope seems to be a little bit&nbsp;&nbsp; slower, but now it's reaching the promised land.&nbsp; But man, we started super recently with AI agents,&nbsp;&nbsp; and the slope I think is incredibly steep, and&nbsp; we'll probably see a crossover at some point.&nbsp;&nbsp; But we really have only had like a year really&nbsp; to explore these things. Do you think we haven't&nbsp;&nbsp; crossed over already when you look at the coding&nbsp; work in particular? Yeah, it's a good point. It's&nbsp;&nbsp; like, your chart actually shows AI agents is below&nbsp; self-driving, but like, what is the Y axis? Some&nbsp;&nbsp; measures, like, I would not be surprised actually&nbsp; if AI products are AI agents, products are making&nbsp;&nbsp; more revenue than Waymo at this point. Like Wayma&nbsp; was making a lot, but like, just look at all the&nbsp;&nbsp; startups coming up, look at ChatGPT and how many&nbsp; subscriptions are happening there and all of that.&nbsp;&nbsp; And so maybe we have actually crossed, and a&nbsp; couple years from now, it's going to look very,&nbsp;&nbsp; very different. Yeah, the Y axis is tangible&nbsp; felt autonomy. Don't pick the objective.&nbsp;&nbsp; How do I feel about it? Exactly, it vibes more&nbsp; than revenue. But revenue is a good one. We&nbsp;&nbsp; should probably redo that with revenue. There's a&nbsp; second thing I wanted to mention on this as well,&nbsp;&nbsp; which is the scaffolding and the environment&nbsp; in which these things operate in. So I actually&nbsp;&nbsp; remember in the early days of self-driving, a&nbsp; lot of the researchers around self-driving were&nbsp;&nbsp; saying that the roads themselves will have to&nbsp; change to accommodate self-driving. There might&nbsp;&nbsp; be sensors everywhere so that the self-driving&nbsp; cars can interact with it, which I think is like,&nbsp;&nbsp; retrospect overkill. But I actually do think&nbsp; self-driving cars have a good amount of&nbsp;&nbsp; scaffolding in the world for them to operate in.&nbsp; Like not completely unlimited. You have roads,&nbsp;&nbsp; roads exist, they're pretty standardized. You have&nbsp; stoplights. People generally operate in pretty&nbsp;&nbsp; normal ways. And there are all these traffic&nbsp; laws that you can learn. Whereas AI agents are&nbsp;&nbsp; just kind of dropped in the middle of nowhere,&nbsp; and they kind of have to feel around for them.&nbsp;&nbsp; And I actually think going off of what Olivier&nbsp; just said too, my hunch is some of the enterprise&nbsp;&nbsp; deployments that don't actually work out likely&nbsp; don't have the scaffolding or infrastructure for&nbsp;&nbsp; these agents to interact with as well. A lot of&nbsp; the really successful deployments that we've made,&nbsp;&nbsp; a lot of what our FDEs end up doing with some&nbsp; of these customers is to create almost like a&nbsp;&nbsp; platform or some type of scaffolding, connectors,&nbsp; organizing the data so that the models have&nbsp;&nbsp; something that they can interact with in a more&nbsp; standardized way. And so my sense of self-driving&nbsp;&nbsp; cars actually have had this in some degree with&nbsp; roads over the course of their deployment. But&nbsp;&nbsp; I actually think it's still very early in the&nbsp; AI agents space. And I would not be surprised&nbsp;&nbsp; if a lot of these, a lot of enterprises, a&nbsp; lot of companies just don't really have the&nbsp;&nbsp; scaffolding ready. So if you drop an AI agent in&nbsp; there, it kind of doesn't really know what to do,&nbsp;&nbsp; and its impact will be limited. And so I think&nbsp; once this scaffolding gets built out across some&nbsp;&nbsp; of these companies, I think the deployment will&nbsp; also speed up. But again, to our point earlier, I&nbsp;&nbsp; think there's no slowdown. Things are still moving&nbsp; very fast. That's great. Well, you know, I've&nbsp;&nbsp; thought about autonomy as a three-part structure.&nbsp; You've got perception. You've got the reasoning,&nbsp;&nbsp; the brain. And then you've got the scaffolding,&nbsp; the last mile of making things work. Maybe we can&nbsp;&nbsp; dive into the second part, which is the reasoning,&nbsp; which is the juice that you guys are building with&nbsp;&nbsp; GPT-5, most recently. Huge endeavor, congrats. The&nbsp; first time you guys have launched a full system,&nbsp;&nbsp; not a model or a set of models, but a full&nbsp; system. Talk about that. I mean, the full arc&nbsp;&nbsp; of that development, what was your focus? I mean,&nbsp; honestly, the benchmarks all seem so saturated.&nbsp;&nbsp; Like clearly it was more than just benchmarks&nbsp; that you were focused on. And so what is a&nbsp;&nbsp; North Star? Tell us about GPT-5, soup to nuts.&nbsp; It's been the work of love of many people for&nbsp;&nbsp; a long time. And to your point, I think GPT-5 is&nbsp; amazingly intelligent. You look at the benchmark,&nbsp;&nbsp; like the suite bench and the likes, it is going&nbsp; pretty high. But I think to me equally important&nbsp;&nbsp; and impactful was, I would say, the craft, like&nbsp; the style, the tone, the behavior of the model.&nbsp;&nbsp; So capabilities intelligence and behavior&nbsp; of the model. On the behavior of the model,&nbsp;&nbsp; I think it's the first model, like large model&nbsp; release for which we have worked so closely with&nbsp;&nbsp; a bunch of customers for like month and month,&nbsp; essentially, to better understand what are the&nbsp;&nbsp; concrete blocks, what are the concrete blockers&nbsp; of the model. And often it's not about having&nbsp;&nbsp; a model which is way more intelligent, a model&nbsp; which is a model that better follows instruction,&nbsp;&nbsp; a model that is more likely to say no when he&nbsp; doesn't know about something. And so that super&nbsp;&nbsp; close customer feedback loop on GPT-5 was pretty&nbsp; impressive to see. And I think all the love that&nbsp;&nbsp; GPT-5 has been getting in the past couple of&nbsp; weeks, I think people are starting to feel that,&nbsp;&nbsp; essentially, the builders. And once you see it,&nbsp; it's really hard, essentially, to come back to&nbsp;&nbsp; a model which is extremely intelligent, but an&nbsp; exquisite academic, essentially, way. Are there&nbsp;&nbsp; trade-offs that you made as you were going through&nbsp; it? Maybe what are the hardest trade-offs you made&nbsp;&nbsp; as you were building GPT-5? I actually think a&nbsp; very clear trade-off, which I honestly think we&nbsp;&nbsp; are still iterating on, is the trade-off between&nbsp; the reasoning tokens and how long it thinks versus&nbsp;&nbsp; performance. And honestly, this is something&nbsp; that I think we've been working on with our&nbsp;&nbsp; customers since the launch of the reasoning&nbsp; models, which is these models are so, so smart,&nbsp;&nbsp; especially if you give it all this thinking time.&nbsp; I think the feedback I've been seeing around GPT-5&nbsp;&nbsp; Pro has been pretty crazy, too. It's just like&nbsp; these unsolved-- Andrej had a great tweet last&nbsp;&nbsp; night. Yeah, I saw that Sam retweeted it. But&nbsp; these unsolved problems that none of the other&nbsp;&nbsp; models could handle, you throw to GPT-5 Pro and&nbsp; it just one-shots it, it's pretty crazy. But the&nbsp;&nbsp; trade-off here is you're waiting for 10 minutes.&nbsp; It's quite a long time. And so these things just&nbsp;&nbsp; get so smart with more inference time. But on&nbsp; the product builder on the API side for some of&nbsp;&nbsp; these business use cases, I think it's pretty&nbsp; tough to manage that trade-off. And for us,&nbsp;&nbsp; it's been difficult to figure out where we want&nbsp; to fall on that spectrum. So we've had to make&nbsp;&nbsp; some trade-offs on how much of the model think&nbsp; versus how intelligent should it get. Because as a&nbsp;&nbsp; product builder, there's a real latency trade-off&nbsp; that you have to deal with where your user might&nbsp;&nbsp; not be happy waiting 10 minutes for the best&nbsp; answer in the world. It might be more okay with&nbsp;&nbsp; the substandard answer in no wait at all. Yeah,&nbsp; I mean even between GPT-5 and GPT-5 thinking,&nbsp;&nbsp; I have to toggle it now because sometimes&nbsp; I'm so impatient I just want it ASAP. I think&nbsp;&nbsp; there's an ability to skip, right? Yeah, that's&nbsp; right. And GPT where it's like I'm impatient,&nbsp;&nbsp; I just want a more simple answer. That's right,&nbsp; that's right. Well, four weeks in, GPT-5, how's&nbsp;&nbsp; the feedback? Yeah, I think feedback has been&nbsp; very positive, especially on the platform side,&nbsp;&nbsp; which has been really great to see. I think a lot&nbsp; of the things that Olivier mentioned have been,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, coming up in feedback from customers.&nbsp; The model is extremely good at coding, extremely&nbsp;&nbsp; good at kind of like reasoning through different&nbsp; tasks. But especially for like coding use cases,&nbsp;&nbsp; especially at the, you know, when it thinks for&nbsp; a while, it'll usually solve problems that no&nbsp;&nbsp; other models can solve. So I think that's been&nbsp; a big positive point of feedback. The kind of&nbsp;&nbsp; robustness and the reduction in hallucinations has&nbsp; been a really big positive feedback. Yeah, yeah,&nbsp;&nbsp; yeah. I think there's an eval that showed that&nbsp; the hallucinations basically went to zero for&nbsp;&nbsp; a lot of this. It's not perfect, there's still a&nbsp; lot of work to be done, but I think because of the&nbsp;&nbsp; reasoning in there too, it just makes the model&nbsp; more likely to say no, less likely to hallucinate&nbsp;&nbsp; answers. So that's been something that people&nbsp; have really liked as well. Other bit of feedback&nbsp;&nbsp; has been around instruction following. So it's&nbsp; really good at instruction following. This almost&nbsp;&nbsp; bleeds into like the constructive feedback that&nbsp; we're working on where for that it's so good at&nbsp;&nbsp; construction following, that instruction following&nbsp; that people need to tweak their prompts or it's&nbsp;&nbsp; almost like too literal. That's why it's an&nbsp; interesting trade-off actually, because you know&nbsp;&nbsp; when you ask people developers like what do you&nbsp; want, like you want the model for instructions,&nbsp;&nbsp; of course, you know. But once you have a model&nbsp; which is like, that is like extremely literal&nbsp;&nbsp; essentially, that essentially forces you&nbsp; to express extremely clearly what you want,&nbsp;&nbsp; otherwise the model may go sideways. And so that&nbsp; one was interesting feedback. It's almost like&nbsp;&nbsp; the monkey paw where it's like developers and&nbsp; platform customers ask for better instruction&nbsp;&nbsp; following. They're like, yes, we'll give you&nbsp; really good instruction following, but it's like,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, it follows it almost to a T. And&nbsp; so it's obviously something that the team is&nbsp;&nbsp; actually working through. I think a good example&nbsp; of this, by the way, is some customers would have&nbsp;&nbsp; these prompts. I remember when we were testing&nbsp; GPT-5, one of the negative feedback that we&nbsp;&nbsp; got was the model was too concise. We were like,&nbsp; what's going on? Why is the model so concise? And&nbsp;&nbsp; then we realized it was because they were using&nbsp; their old prompts from other models. And with&nbsp;&nbsp; the other models, they have to like, you have to&nbsp; like really beg the model to be concise. So there&nbsp;&nbsp; are like 10 lines of like, be concise, really be&nbsp; concise. Also keep your answer short. And it turns&nbsp;&nbsp; out when you give that to GPT-5, it's like, oh my&nbsp; gosh, this person really wants it to be concise.&nbsp;&nbsp; And so the response would be like one sentence,&nbsp; which is too terse. And so just by removing the&nbsp;&nbsp; extra prompts around being concise, the model&nbsp; behaved in a much better way and much closer to&nbsp;&nbsp; what they actually end up. Yeah, turns out writing&nbsp; the right prompt is still important. Yes, yes,&nbsp;&nbsp; yeah. Prompt engineering is still very, very&nbsp; important. On constructive feedback for GPT-5,&nbsp;&nbsp; there's actually been a good amount as well,&nbsp; which we're all working through. One of them&nbsp;&nbsp; that I think is, I'm really excited for the next&nbsp; snapshot to come out to fix some of this is code&nbsp;&nbsp; quality and like small like code, like paradigms&nbsp; or like idioms that they might use. I think there&nbsp;&nbsp; are like feedback around the types of code and&nbsp; the patterns in which it was using, which I think&nbsp;&nbsp; we're working through as well. And then the other&nbsp; bit of feedback, which I think we've already made&nbsp;&nbsp; good progress on internally is around the trade&nbsp; off of the reasoning tokens and thinking and&nbsp;&nbsp; latency around intelligence. I think especially&nbsp; for the simpler problems, you don't usually need&nbsp;&nbsp; a lot of thinking. The thinking should ideally&nbsp; be a little bit more dynamic. And of course,&nbsp;&nbsp; we're always trying to squeeze as much reasoning&nbsp; and performance into as little reasoning tokens as&nbsp;&nbsp; possible. So I'd imagine that kind of going down&nbsp; as well. Yeah. Well, huge congrats. I mean, it's&nbsp;&nbsp; been, I know it's a work in motion for a bunch&nbsp; of our companies. They've had incredible outcomes&nbsp;&nbsp; with GPT-5, one of them's Expo, cybersecurity&nbsp; business, it's like a huge-- Yeah, I saw the&nbsp;&nbsp; charge from that. It was pretty crazy. Huge, huge&nbsp; upgrade from whatever they were using prior to&nbsp;&nbsp; that. I think they're going to need a new eval&nbsp; soon. That's right. They're going to need a new&nbsp;&nbsp; eval. It's all about evals. On the multimodality&nbsp; side of it, obviously you guys announced the real&nbsp;&nbsp; time API last week. I saw T-Mobile was&nbsp; one of the featured customers on there.&nbsp;&nbsp; Talk about that, like how obviously the text&nbsp; models are leading the pack, but then we got&nbsp;&nbsp; audio and we got video. Talk about the progress&nbsp; on the multimodal models. When should we expect&nbsp;&nbsp; to have the next big unlock and what would that&nbsp; look like? It's a good question. The teams have&nbsp;&nbsp; been making amazing progress on multimodality. On&nbsp; voice, image, video, frankly, the last generation&nbsp;&nbsp; models have been unlocking quite a few cool use&nbsp; cases. One of the feedback that we've received is&nbsp;&nbsp; because text was so much leading the pack on the&nbsp; intelligence, people felt like in in voice that&nbsp;&nbsp; the model was somewhat a little less intelligent.&nbsp; Until you actually see it, it does feel weird to&nbsp;&nbsp; have a better answer on text versus voice. That's&nbsp; pretty much the focus that we have at the moment.&nbsp;&nbsp; I think we filled part of that gap, but not&nbsp; the full gap for sure. I think catching up,&nbsp;&nbsp; I would say with the text would be one. A second&nbsp; one, which is absolutely fascinating, is the&nbsp;&nbsp; model is excellent at the moment on easy casual&nbsp; conversation, talk to your coach, your therapist.&nbsp;&nbsp; We basically had to teach the model to speak&nbsp; essentially better in actual work economically&nbsp;&nbsp; valuable setups. To give an example, the model has&nbsp; to be able to understand what an SSN is and what&nbsp;&nbsp; it's meant to spell an SSN. If one digit is fuzzy,&nbsp; it actually has to repeat versus guess. There are&nbsp;&nbsp; lots of infusions like that that someone has&nbsp; of our voice that we are currently teaching the&nbsp;&nbsp; model. That's an ongoing work actually with our&nbsp; customers until we actually confront the model to&nbsp;&nbsp; actual customer support calls, actual set school.&nbsp; It's really hard to get a feel for those gaps.&nbsp;&nbsp; That's a top priority as well. This is completely&nbsp; off script, but an interesting question that comes&nbsp;&nbsp; up in voice models, particularly the real-time API&nbsp; is previously people were taking a speech input,&nbsp;&nbsp; convert that to text, then have some layer of&nbsp; intelligence. Then you would have a text to&nbsp;&nbsp; speech model that would play it back. It would be&nbsp; a stitch of these three parts. The real-time API,&nbsp;&nbsp; you guys have integrated all of that. How does it&nbsp; happen? Because a lot of the logic is written in&nbsp;&nbsp; text. A lot of the boolean logic or any function&nbsp; calling is written in text. How does it work with&nbsp;&nbsp; the real-time API? That's an excellent question.&nbsp; The reason why we should do real-time API is that&nbsp;&nbsp; we saw that for the stitch model. The stitch&nbsp; model. Yeah. The real-time API. The stitch. We&nbsp;&nbsp; call it a stitch together. Like a speech to text,&nbsp; thinking, text to speech. We saw essentially a&nbsp;&nbsp; couple of issues. One, slowness, like you know,&nbsp; more hops essentially. Two, loss of signal,&nbsp;&nbsp; like a close stitch model. The speech to&nbsp; text model is less intelligent. Yeah, you'd&nbsp;&nbsp; lead through the emotion. Exactly. Exactly. Right.&nbsp; Pauses. Yeah. When you are doing actual voice,&nbsp;&nbsp; like phone calls, essentially, those signals&nbsp; are so important, One of the challenges that&nbsp;&nbsp; we have is what you mentioned, which is, it means&nbsp; a slightly different architecture, essentially,&nbsp;&nbsp; for text versus voice. That's something that we&nbsp; are actively working on. But I think it was the&nbsp;&nbsp; right call to start essentially with, let's make&nbsp; the voice experience like natural sounding to a&nbsp;&nbsp; point where essentially you're feeling comfortable&nbsp; putting in production and then working backward to&nbsp;&nbsp; unify the orchestration logic, essentially,&nbsp; across modalities. And then to be clear,&nbsp;&nbsp; a lot of customers still stitch these together.&nbsp; It's like what worked in the last generation. But&nbsp;&nbsp; what we're interested in seeing is more and more&nbsp; customers moving towards the real-time approach&nbsp;&nbsp; because of how natural it sounds, how much lower&nbsp; latency. It is especially as we uplevel the&nbsp;&nbsp; intelligence of the model. But also even taking a&nbsp; step back, I will say it's pretty mind-blowing to&nbsp;&nbsp; me that it works. I think it's mind-blowing that&nbsp; these LMs work at all, where you just train it on&nbsp;&nbsp; a bunch of text and it's just autoregressively&nbsp; coming up with the next token and it sounds super&nbsp;&nbsp; intelligent. That's mind-blowing in and of itself.&nbsp; But I think it's actually even more mind-blowing&nbsp;&nbsp; that this speech-to-speech setup actually works&nbsp; correctly because you're literally taking the&nbsp;&nbsp; audio bits from someone speaking, streaming,&nbsp; putting it into the model, and then it's&nbsp;&nbsp; generating audio bits back. To me, it's actually&nbsp; crazy that this works at all, let alone the fact&nbsp;&nbsp; that it can understand accents and tone and pauses&nbsp; and things like that, and then also be intelligent&nbsp;&nbsp; enough to handle a support call or something&nbsp; like that. If you've gone from text-in, text-out&nbsp;&nbsp; to voice-in, voice-out, that's pretty crazy. We&nbsp; have a bunch of companies in our portfolio that&nbsp;&nbsp; are using these models, Parloa on the customer&nbsp; support side, LiveKit on the infra side. There's&nbsp;&nbsp; a bunch of use cases we were starting to see that&nbsp; a speech-to-speech model could address. There's&nbsp;&nbsp; a lot of the harder ones still running on what&nbsp; you're calling the "stitch model." But I hope&nbsp;&nbsp; the day is not far when it's all on real-time API.&nbsp; It's going to happen at some point. Right, right,&nbsp;&nbsp; right. And actually maybe that's a good segue&nbsp; into talking about model customization because&nbsp;&nbsp; I suspect that you have such a wide variety of&nbsp; enterprise customers. I think you mentioned what,&nbsp;&nbsp; hundreds of customers or maybe more? Each of them&nbsp; has a different use case, a different problem set,&nbsp;&nbsp; a different call and envelope of parameters that&nbsp; they're working in, maybe latency, maybe power,&nbsp;&nbsp; maybe others. How do you handle that? Talk&nbsp; about what OpenAI offers enterprises who need&nbsp;&nbsp; a customized version of a great model to make&nbsp; it great for them. Yeah, so model customization&nbsp;&nbsp; is actually been something that we've invested&nbsp; very deeply in on the API platform since the very&nbsp;&nbsp; beginning. So even pre-ChatGPT days, we actually&nbsp; had a supervised fine-tuning API available and&nbsp;&nbsp; people were actually using it to great effect. The&nbsp; most exciting thing actually I'd say around model&nbsp;&nbsp; customization, it obviously resonates quite well&nbsp; with customers because they want to be able to&nbsp;&nbsp; bring in your own custom data and create your&nbsp; own custom version of o3 or o4-mini or something&nbsp;&nbsp; or GPT-5 even suited to their own needs.&nbsp; It's very attractive but the most recent&nbsp;&nbsp; development I think is very exciting has been&nbsp; the introduction of reinforcement fine-tuning.&nbsp;&nbsp; For something we announced late last year, I think&nbsp; in the 12 days of Christmas, we've GA'd it since&nbsp;&nbsp; and we're continuing to iterate on it. What is&nbsp; it, break it down for us? Yeah, so it's called,&nbsp;&nbsp; it's actually funny, I think we made up the term&nbsp; reinforcement fine-tuning. It's like not a real&nbsp;&nbsp; thing until we announced that. It's stuck now. I&nbsp; see it all the time. I remember we were discussing&nbsp;&nbsp; it and I was like, "I don't know about RPI."&nbsp; You're not kidding. You're not kidding. Yeah,&nbsp;&nbsp; so reinforcement fine-tuning. So it really,&nbsp; it's introducing reinforcement learning into the&nbsp;&nbsp; fine-tuning process. So the original fine-tuning&nbsp; API does something called supervised fine-tuning,&nbsp;&nbsp; we call it SFT. It is not using reinforcement&nbsp; learning. It is, it's using supervised learning.&nbsp;&nbsp; And so what that usually means is you need a&nbsp; bunch of data, a bunch of prompt completion&nbsp;&nbsp; pairs. You need to really supervise and tell&nbsp; exactly the model how it should be acting. And&nbsp;&nbsp; then when you train it on our fine-tuning API, it&nbsp; moves it closer in that direction. Reinforcement&nbsp;&nbsp; fine-tuning introduces like RL or reinforcement&nbsp; learning to the sloop. Way more complex,&nbsp;&nbsp; way more finicky, but in order of magnitude more&nbsp; powerful. And so that's actually what's really&nbsp;&nbsp; resonated with a lot of our customers. It allows&nbsp; you to, if you use RFT, the discussion is less of&nbsp;&nbsp; like creating a custom model that's specific to&nbsp; your own use case. It is, you can actually use&nbsp;&nbsp; your own data and actually crank the RL, yeah,&nbsp; turn the crank on RL to actually create a like&nbsp;&nbsp; best-in-class model for your own particular use&nbsp; case. And so that's kind of the main difference&nbsp;&nbsp; here. With RFT, the data set looks a little bit&nbsp; different. Instead of prompt completion pairs,&nbsp;&nbsp; you really need a set of tasks that are very&nbsp; gradable. You need a grader that is very objective&nbsp;&nbsp; that you can use here as well. And so that's&nbsp; actually been something that we've invested a&nbsp;&nbsp; lot in over the last year. And we've actually seen&nbsp; a number of customers get really good results on&nbsp;&nbsp; this. We've talked about a couple of them across&nbsp; different verticals. So Rogo, which is a startup&nbsp;&nbsp; in the financial services space. They have a&nbsp; very sophisticated AI team. I think they hire&nbsp;&nbsp; some folks in DeepMind to run their AI program.&nbsp; And they've been using RFT to get best-in-class&nbsp;&nbsp; results on parsing through financial documents,&nbsp; answering questions around it, and doing tasks&nbsp;&nbsp; around that as well. There's another startup&nbsp; called Accordance that's doing this in the&nbsp;&nbsp; tax space. I think they've been targeting an eval&nbsp; called TaxBench, which looks at CPA-style tasks as&nbsp;&nbsp; well. And because they're able to turn it into a&nbsp; very gradable setup, they're actually able to turn&nbsp;&nbsp; the RFT crank and also get, I think, like, SOTA&nbsp; results on TaxBench just using our RFT product as&nbsp;&nbsp; well. And so it has kind of shifted the discussion&nbsp; away from just customizing something for your own&nbsp;&nbsp; use case to really leveraging your own data to&nbsp; create a best-in-class, maybe best-in-the-world&nbsp;&nbsp; model for something that you care about for your&nbsp; business. Yeah, I feel like the base models are&nbsp;&nbsp; getting so good at instruction following that for&nbsp; behavior steering, you don't need to find you at&nbsp;&nbsp; that point. You can describe what you want, and&nbsp; the model is pretty good at it. But pushing the&nbsp;&nbsp; frontier on actual capabilities, my heart is&nbsp; that RFT will pretty much become the norm. If&nbsp;&nbsp; you are actually pushing in your field, like, you&nbsp; know, intelligence to a pretty high point, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; at some point, you need to aisle essentially with&nbsp; custom environments. Fascinating. And even going&nbsp;&nbsp; back to the point earlier around top-down versus&nbsp; bottom-up for some of these enterprises, a lot of&nbsp;&nbsp; the data that you end up needing for RFT require&nbsp; very intricate knowledge about the exact task that&nbsp;&nbsp; you're doing and understanding how to grade it.&nbsp; And so a lot of that actually comes from bottoms&nbsp;&nbsp; up. Like, I know a lot of these startups will work&nbsp; with experts in their field to try and get the&nbsp;&nbsp; right tasks and get the right feedback to craft&nbsp; some of these data sets. Without further ado,&nbsp;&nbsp; we're going to jump into my favorite section,&nbsp; which is a rapid-fire question. We had a lot of&nbsp;&nbsp; great friends of ours send in some questions&nbsp; for you guys. We'll start with Altimeter's&nbsp;&nbsp; favorite game, which is a long, short game. Pick&nbsp; a business, an idea, a startup that you're long,&nbsp;&nbsp; and the same short that you would bet against&nbsp; that there's more hype than there's reality.&nbsp;&nbsp; Whoever's ready to go first, long, short. My long&nbsp; is actually not in the AI space, so this is going&nbsp;&nbsp; to be slightly different. Wow. Here we go. My&nbsp; short is, though, in the AI space. So I'm actually&nbsp;&nbsp; extremely long esports. And so what I mean by&nbsp; "esports" is the entire, like, professional&nbsp;&nbsp; gaming industry that's emerging around&nbsp; video games. Very near and dear to my heart,&nbsp;&nbsp; I play a lot of video games, and so I watch a lot&nbsp; of this. So obviously, I'm pretty in the weeds on&nbsp;&nbsp; this. But I actually think there's incredible&nbsp; untapped potential in esports and incredible&nbsp;&nbsp; growth to be had in this area. So concretely, what&nbsp; I mean, a really big one is League of Legends.&nbsp;&nbsp; All of the games that Riot Games puts out, they&nbsp; actually have their own professional leagues. They&nbsp;&nbsp; actually have professional tournaments, believe&nbsp; it or not. They rent out stadiums, actually,&nbsp;&nbsp; now. But I just think it's like, if you look&nbsp; at kind of what the youth and what younger kids&nbsp;&nbsp; are looking and where their time is going, it's&nbsp; predominantly going towards these things. They&nbsp;&nbsp; spend a lot of time on video games. They watch&nbsp; more esports than like soccer or basketball? Yeah,&nbsp;&nbsp; yeah, yeah, yeah. A growing number of these,&nbsp; too. I've actually been to some of these events,&nbsp;&nbsp; and it's very interesting. He's very commited to&nbsp; his long. Yeah, yeah. I'm extremely long stuff.&nbsp;&nbsp; And so they're booking out stadiums for people to&nbsp; go watch electronic sports. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I&nbsp;&nbsp; literally went to Oracle Arena, the old Warrior&nbsp; Stadium, to watch one of these, I think, before&nbsp;&nbsp; COVID. And then the... So it's just... Before&nbsp; COVID? Wow, that's five years ago. Six years&nbsp;&nbsp; ago. So I've been following this for a while,&nbsp; and I actually think it had a really big moment&nbsp;&nbsp; in COVID. Like, everyone was playing video games.&nbsp; Yeah, it was more so... I think it's kind of like,&nbsp;&nbsp; come back down. So I think it's like, undervalued.&nbsp; You know, it's like, I think no one's really&nbsp;&nbsp; appreciating it now. But it has all the elements&nbsp; to like, really, really take off. And so the youth&nbsp;&nbsp; are doing it. The other thing I'd say is it is&nbsp; huge in Asia. Like absolutely massive in Asia. It&nbsp;&nbsp; is absolutely big in Korea, in China as well. Like&nbsp; we rented out Oracle Arena, I think, or like the&nbsp;&nbsp; event I went to was in Oracle Arena. My senses in&nbsp; Asia, they rent out like the entire stadiums, like&nbsp;&nbsp; the soccer stadiums, and the players are ready&nbsp; like celebrities. So anyways, as like, I know like&nbsp;&nbsp; Korean culture is really making its way into the&nbsp; US as well. I think that's another tailwind for&nbsp;&nbsp; this whole thing. But anyways, esports, I think,&nbsp; is something you should keep an eye out on because&nbsp;&nbsp; there's a lot of room for growth. Very unexpected.&nbsp; Good to hear. Short. My short, my short's a little&nbsp;&nbsp; spicy, which is I'm short on the entire category&nbsp; of like tooling around AI products. And so this&nbsp;&nbsp; encapsulates a lot of different things. Kind of&nbsp; cheating because some of these, you know, I think&nbsp;&nbsp; are starting to play out already. But I think like&nbsp; two years ago, it was maybe like evals products&nbsp;&nbsp; or like frameworks or vector stores. I'm pretty&nbsp; short those. I think nowadays there's a lot of&nbsp;&nbsp; additional excitement around other tooling around&nbsp; AI models. So RL environments, I think, are really&nbsp;&nbsp; big right now as well. Unfortunately, I'm very&nbsp; short on those. I'm not really, I don't really see&nbsp;&nbsp; a lot of potential there. See a lot of potential&nbsp; and reinforcement learning and applying it. But I&nbsp;&nbsp; think the startup space around RL environments,&nbsp; I think, is really tough. Main thing is, one,&nbsp;&nbsp; it's just a very competitive space. There's just a&nbsp; lot of people kind of operating it. And then two,&nbsp;&nbsp; if the last two years have shown us anything, the&nbsp; space is evolving so quickly and it's so difficult&nbsp;&nbsp; to try and like adapt and understand what the&nbsp; exact stack is that will really carry through&nbsp;&nbsp; to the next generation of models. I think that&nbsp; just makes it very difficult when you're in the&nbsp;&nbsp; tooling space because, you know, today's really&nbsp; hot framework or really hot tool might just not&nbsp;&nbsp; get used in the next generation of models. So I've&nbsp; been noticing like the same pattern, which is the&nbsp;&nbsp; teams that build like breakout startups in AI are&nbsp; extremely pragmatic. They are not super like, you&nbsp;&nbsp; know, intellectual, but like the perfect world,&nbsp; et cetera. And it's funny because I feel like,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, our generation has basically started&nbsp; in tech in a very like stable moment where,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, technology had been building up for&nbsp; years and years with like SaaS, like cloud,&nbsp;&nbsp; et cetera. And so we were in a way like raised,&nbsp; like, you know, in that very stable moment where&nbsp;&nbsp; it makes sense at that point to, you know, design&nbsp; like very like, you know, good, like abstractions&nbsp;&nbsp; and toolings because, you know, you have a sense&nbsp; why it's going. But it's so different today. Like,&nbsp;&nbsp; don't wait for it to know what's going to happen&nbsp; next year or two. So it's almost impossible to&nbsp;&nbsp; define like the perfect tooling platform. Right.&nbsp; Right. Right. Well, that's there's a lot of that&nbsp;&nbsp; going around right now. Yes. Spicy. A lot of&nbsp; homework there. Olivier, over to you, sir. Long&nbsp;&nbsp; short. I've been thinking a lot about education&nbsp; for the past month in the context of kids.&nbsp;&nbsp; I'm pretty short on any education which basically&nbsp; emphasizes human memorization at that point.&nbsp;&nbsp; And I say that having mostly been through that&nbsp; education myself, but, you know, like I learned so&nbsp;&nbsp; much on like, you know, history facts, like, you&nbsp; know, legal things that are, you know, some of it&nbsp;&nbsp; like does shape your way of thinking. A lot of it,&nbsp; frankly, is just like, you know, knowledge tokens,&nbsp;&nbsp; essentially. And those knowledge tokens, you&nbsp; know, it turns out like, you know, other items&nbsp;&nbsp; are pretty good at it. So I'm quite short on that.&nbsp; You will need memory when strategy is bionic. You&nbsp;&nbsp; can just think about it straight into your head.&nbsp; Exactly. Exactly. What am I long at? Frankly,&nbsp;&nbsp; I think healthcare is probably the industry&nbsp; that will benefit the most from AI in the next&nbsp;&nbsp; like year or two. I would say more. I think all&nbsp; the ingredients are here for a perfect storm. A&nbsp;&nbsp; huge amount of like structure and structural data,&nbsp; you know, it's basically the heart of, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; like the pharma companies, the Mauser, excellent&nbsp; at digesting processing that kind of data. A huge&nbsp;&nbsp; amount of like admin, like, you know, heavy, like&nbsp; documents heavy, like, you know, culture. But at&nbsp;&nbsp; the same time, like companies which are very&nbsp; technical, very R&amp;D friendly, like, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; companies like, you know, who's like sort of&nbsp; technology in a way that the heart of what they&nbsp;&nbsp; do. And so, yeah, I'm pretty bullish on that. This&nbsp; is like life sciences. So you mean life sciences,&nbsp;&nbsp; research organizations that are producing drugs.&nbsp; Gotcha. Exactly. It's almost like, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; over the last 20, 30 years, these like pharma or&nbsp; like biotech companies have basically, if you look&nbsp;&nbsp; at the work that they're doing, like only a small&nbsp; amount of it is actual research. And so much of it&nbsp;&nbsp; ends up being admin and like, you know, documents&nbsp; and things like that. And that area is just so&nbsp;&nbsp; ripe for, you know, something to happen with AI.&nbsp; And I think that's what we're seeing with Amgen&nbsp;&nbsp; and some of these other customers. Exactly. And&nbsp; it's also like not what they want to do. I think&nbsp;&nbsp; it's good that we have some regulations there,&nbsp; obviously, but like, just means that they have&nbsp;&nbsp; like reams and reams of things to kind of go&nbsp; through. And so, you know, like when you have&nbsp;&nbsp; a technology that's able to really help like&nbsp; bring down the cost of something like that, I&nbsp;&nbsp; think it'll just, you know, tear right through it.&nbsp; And I think once governments and like, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; institutions are going to realize that, like, if&nbsp; you step back, like, it is probably one of the&nbsp;&nbsp; biggest bottleneck to like human progress, right?&nbsp; You step back in the past decade, like, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; how many like breakthrough drugs have there been?&nbsp; Like, you know, not that many. Like, you know, how&nbsp;&nbsp; life would be different if you double that rate?&nbsp; Essentially. So once you realize what is at stake,&nbsp;&nbsp; then my hunch is that we're going to see quite&nbsp; a bit of momentum in that space. Wow. All right.&nbsp;&nbsp; Lots of homework there as well. Yeah. Next one.&nbsp; Favorite underrated AI tool other than ChatGPT&nbsp;&nbsp; maybe. I love Granola. Oh man, you stole mine.&nbsp; You stole my answer. I do so much, Granola. Like,&nbsp;&nbsp; um. Two votes for Granola. There is something&nbsp; like, yeah. Hey, what about ChatGPT record? I like&nbsp;&nbsp; ChatGPT as well, but there are some pictures of&nbsp; Granola, which I think are really done well. Like,&nbsp;&nbsp; the whole, like, you know, integration with your&nbsp; Google Calendar is excellent. Yeah. Um. And just,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, the quality of, like, the transcription&nbsp; and, like, the summary is pretty good. Do you just&nbsp;&nbsp; have it on? Because I know your calendar is back&nbsp; to back. You just have Granola on. So the funny&nbsp;&nbsp; thing is that I don't use Granola internally. I&nbsp; use Granola for my personal life mostly. I see.&nbsp;&nbsp; Yeah. I see. On dates. I'm joking. I was going&nbsp; to say, yeah, Granola is actually going to be&nbsp;&nbsp; mine. So two votes for Granola. I was going to&nbsp; say the easy answer for me is Codex. That as a&nbsp;&nbsp; software engineer. It's just like, it's gone&nbsp; so good recently. Codex CLI, especially with&nbsp;&nbsp; GPT-5. Especially for me, I tend to be less time&nbsp; sensitive about, like, you know, the iteration&nbsp;&nbsp; loop with coding. And so leaning in as GPT-5 on&nbsp; Codex I think has been really... Interesting.&nbsp;&nbsp; What about Codex has changed? Because, you know,&nbsp; Codex has also been through a journey. Codex has&nbsp;&nbsp; been around for a bit. I remember, like, it's&nbsp; been launched for, like, more than over a year&nbsp;&nbsp; ago. It's like, what's changed about Codex? Yeah,&nbsp; I was actually going to... Codex the CLI has been&nbsp;&nbsp; around for a bit. I feel like it's&nbsp; been less than a year for Codex. I&nbsp;&nbsp; feel like it's been less than a year for Codex.&nbsp; The time dilation is so crazy and this feels...&nbsp;&nbsp; It feels like it's been around for a year ago&nbsp; with GPT-5. Oh, like, you know, that demo,&nbsp;&nbsp; like, that feels like ages ago. And it didn't even&nbsp; come out yet. Probably because it hasn't happened&nbsp;&nbsp; yet. The voice demo is... I think it was a naming&nbsp; thing, okay, but anyway... Oh, there was a Codex&nbsp;&nbsp; model. That's what I'm thinking about. There was&nbsp; a Codex model. Yeah, we are. You're not too blamed&nbsp;&nbsp; for that confusion. Also, I think the GitHub thing&nbsp; was called Codex. That's right. Yes, yes. I'm&nbsp;&nbsp; talking about our coding product within ChatGPT,&nbsp; which are the Codex Cloud offering, and then also&nbsp;&nbsp; Codex CLI. So, actually, maybe if I were to narrow&nbsp; my answer a little bit more, it's Codex CLI,&nbsp;&nbsp; which I've really, really liked. I like the local&nbsp; environment set up. The thing that's actually made&nbsp;&nbsp; it really useful in the last, I'd say, like, month&nbsp; or so is, one, I think the team has done a really&nbsp;&nbsp; good job of just, like, getting rid of all the&nbsp; paper cuts, like, the small product polish and,&nbsp;&nbsp; like, paper cut things. It just... It kind&nbsp; of feels like a joy to use now. It feels more&nbsp;&nbsp; reactive. And then the second thing, honestly,&nbsp; is GPT-5. I just think GPT-5 really allows the&nbsp;&nbsp; product to shine. Yeah. It's, you know, at the end&nbsp; of the day, this is kind of a... This is a product&nbsp;&nbsp; that really is dependent on the underlying&nbsp; model. And when you have to, you know, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; iterate and go back and forth with model, like,&nbsp; four or five times to get it right, to get it to,&nbsp;&nbsp; like, you know, do the change that you want,&nbsp; versus having it think a little bit longer and&nbsp;&nbsp; it just, like, one-shots and does exactly what&nbsp; you want to do, you get this, like, weird, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; bionic feeling where you're like, "I feel so&nbsp; mind-melded with the model right now and, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; perfectly understands what I'm doing." So getting,&nbsp; like, that kind of dopamine hit and, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; feedback loop constantly with codecs has made it&nbsp; kind of like an indispensable thing that I really,&nbsp;&nbsp; really like. Nice. And the other thing I'd say&nbsp; Codex is just really good for me is... So I use&nbsp;&nbsp; it for, like, personal projects. I also use it&nbsp; to, like, help me understand code bases, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; as a engineering manager and now I'm not as in the&nbsp; weeds on the actual code. And so you're actually&nbsp;&nbsp; able to use Codex to really understand what's&nbsp; happening with the code base, have it, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; ask questions and have it answer about things and&nbsp; really catch up to speed on things as well. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; like, even the non-coding use cases are really&nbsp; useful with Codex CLI Fascinating. Sam had this&nbsp;&nbsp; tweet about Codex usage ripping, I think, like,&nbsp; yesterday. So I wonder what's going on there,&nbsp;&nbsp; but you're not alone. Yeah, I think I'm not&nbsp; alone. Just judging from the Twitter feedback,&nbsp;&nbsp; I think people are really realizing how great&nbsp; of a combination Codex CLI and GPT-5 are. Yeah,&nbsp;&nbsp; I know that team is undergoing a lot of scaling&nbsp; challenges, but, I mean, the system hasn't gone&nbsp;&nbsp; down for me, so props to them. But we are in a GPU&nbsp; crunch, so we'll see how long that goes. Awesome,&nbsp;&nbsp; awesome. All right, the next one. Will there&nbsp; be more software engineers in 10 years or less?&nbsp;&nbsp; There's about 40, 50 million... full-time,&nbsp; professional software engineers. That's what&nbsp;&nbsp; you mean, like, full-time, like, actual jobs?&nbsp; Yeah, because it's a hard one, because, like,&nbsp;&nbsp; I think without a doubt there's going to be a&nbsp; lot more software engineering going on. Yes, of&nbsp;&nbsp; course. There's actually a really great post that&nbsp; was shared, I think, in our internal Slack. It was&nbsp;&nbsp; like a Reddit post recently. I actually think&nbsp; that highlights this. It was a really touching&nbsp;&nbsp; story. It was a Reddit post about someone who has&nbsp; a brother who's non-verbal. I actually don't know&nbsp;&nbsp; if you saw this. It was just posted. It's a person&nbsp; on Reddit posted, they have a non-verbal brother&nbsp;&nbsp; who they have to take care of. The brother, like,&nbsp; they tried all these types of things to help the&nbsp;&nbsp; brother interact with the world, use computers,&nbsp; but, like, vision tracking didn't work, because&nbsp;&nbsp; I think his vision wasn't good. All the tools&nbsp; didn't work, and then this brother ended up using&nbsp;&nbsp; ChatGPT. I don't think he used codecs, but he&nbsp; used chatGPT and basically taught himself how to&nbsp;&nbsp; create a set of tools that were tailor-made to his&nbsp; non-verbal brother. Basically, a custom software&nbsp;&nbsp; application just for them. Because of that, he&nbsp; now has this custom setup that was written by&nbsp;&nbsp; his brother and allows him to browse the internet.&nbsp; I think the video was him watching The Simpsons or&nbsp;&nbsp; something like that, which was really touching.&nbsp; I think that's actually what we'll see a lot more&nbsp;&nbsp; of. This guy's not a professional software&nbsp; engineer. His title's not software engineer,&nbsp;&nbsp; but he did a lot of software engineering, probably&nbsp; pretty good. Good enough, definitely, for his&nbsp;&nbsp; brother to use. The amount of code, the amount of&nbsp; building that'll happen, I think, is just going&nbsp;&nbsp; to go through an incredible transformation.&nbsp; I'm not sure what that means for software&nbsp;&nbsp; engineers like myself. Maybe there's equivalent&nbsp; or maybe there's-- Of course, more Sherwin. Yeah,&nbsp;&nbsp; more of me. More of me specifically. We need more&nbsp; of you. That's right. Yeah. But definitely a lot&nbsp;&nbsp; more software engineering at a lot of companies.&nbsp; I buy that completely. I buy completely a thesis&nbsp;&nbsp; that there is a massive software shortage in&nbsp; the world. We've been sort of accepting it for&nbsp;&nbsp; the past 20 years. But the goal of software was&nbsp; never to be that super rigid, super hard to build&nbsp;&nbsp; artifact. It was to be customized, malleable.&nbsp; And so I expect that we'll see way more-- sort&nbsp;&nbsp; of a reconfiguration of people's job and skillset&nbsp; where way more people code. I expect that product&nbsp;&nbsp; managers are going to code more and more, for&nbsp; instance. You made your PMs code recently,&nbsp;&nbsp; if you were right. Oh, yeah, we did that. It was&nbsp; really fun. We started essentially not doing PRDs,&nbsp;&nbsp; product requirements documents. Classic&nbsp; PM thing. You write five pages. My product&nbsp;&nbsp; does that, et cetera. And PMs have been basically&nbsp; coding prototypes. And one is pretty fast with&nbsp;&nbsp; GPT-5 and Codex. Yeah, just a couple hours, I&nbsp; think. Fricking fast. And second, it sort of&nbsp;&nbsp; conveys so much more information than a document.&nbsp; You get a feel, essentially, for the feature.&nbsp;&nbsp; Is it right or not? So yeah, I expect that sort of&nbsp; behavior we're going to see more and more. Yeah,&nbsp;&nbsp; instead of writing English, you can actually&nbsp; now write the actual thing you want. Yeah,&nbsp;&nbsp; yeah. Yeah, that's amazing. Advice for high school&nbsp; students who are just starting out their career.&nbsp;&nbsp; My advice is-- I don't know. Maybe it's evergreen.&nbsp; Prioritize critical thinking above anything else.&nbsp;&nbsp; If you go in the field, which requires extremely&nbsp; high critical thinking, like skills-- I don't&nbsp;&nbsp; know, math, physics, or maybe philosophy's in&nbsp; that bucket-- you will be fine regardless. If&nbsp;&nbsp; you go in the field, that sort of turns down that&nbsp; thing. And again, it gets back to memorization,&nbsp;&nbsp; like pattern matching. I think you will probably&nbsp; be less future-proof. What's a good way to sharpen&nbsp;&nbsp; critical thinking? Use ChatGPT and have it test&nbsp; you. That's a tricky test. Having a work-class&nbsp;&nbsp; tutor who essentially knows how to put the&nbsp; bar about 20% of what you can do all the time&nbsp;&nbsp; is actually probably a really good way to do&nbsp; it. Nice. Anything from you, sir? Mine is--&nbsp;&nbsp; I think we're actually in such an interesting,&nbsp; unique time period where the younger-- so maybe&nbsp;&nbsp; this is more general advice for not just high&nbsp; school students, but just the younger generation,&nbsp;&nbsp; even college students. I think the advice would&nbsp; be don't underestimate how much of an advantage&nbsp;&nbsp; you have relative to the rest of the world right&nbsp; now because of how AI native you might be or how&nbsp;&nbsp; in the ways of the tools you are. My hunch is high&nbsp; schoolers, college students, when they come into&nbsp;&nbsp; the workplace, they're going to have actually&nbsp; a huge leg up on how to use AI tools, how to&nbsp;&nbsp; actually transform the workplace. And my push for&nbsp; some of the younger high school students is one,&nbsp;&nbsp; just really immerse yourself in this thing. And&nbsp; then two, just really take advantage of the fact&nbsp;&nbsp; that you're in a unique time where no one else&nbsp; in the workforce really understands these tools&nbsp;&nbsp; as deeply, probably as you do. A good example of&nbsp; this is actually we had our first intern class&nbsp;&nbsp; recently at OpenAI, a lot of software interns.&nbsp; And some of them were just the most incredible&nbsp;&nbsp; Cusor power users I've ever seen. They were so&nbsp; productive. I was shocked by the way. I was like,&nbsp;&nbsp; yeah, I know we can get good interns, but I don't&nbsp; know, they'd be like this good. And I think part&nbsp;&nbsp; of it is they've grown up using these tools,&nbsp; for better or worse, in college. But I think&nbsp;&nbsp; the meta-level point is they're so AI native.&nbsp; And even me and Olivier, we're kind of AI native,&nbsp;&nbsp; we work at OpenAI, but we haven't been steeped in&nbsp; this and grown up in this. And so the advice here&nbsp;&nbsp; would just be leverage that. Don't be afraid to go&nbsp; in and spread this knowledge and take advantage of&nbsp;&nbsp; it in the workplace, because it is a pretty big&nbsp; advantage for them. I can't remember who said&nbsp;&nbsp; this to us at Palantir, but every intern class&nbsp; was just getting faster, smarter, like laptops,&nbsp;&nbsp; like smarter every generation. You sure didn't&nbsp; peak in 2013 when I was an intern. That's right.&nbsp;&nbsp; That's right. There's a weird spike. That's summer&nbsp; 2013. Two guys That's right. That's right. That's&nbsp;&nbsp; right. Well, lots happened here. A lot's happened&nbsp; since you guys joined OpenAI, right? With three&nbsp;&nbsp; years and almost three years. In your OpenAI&nbsp; journey, what has been the rose moment, your&nbsp;&nbsp; favorite moment, the bud moment where you're most&nbsp; excited about something, but still opportunity&nbsp;&nbsp; ahead, and the thorn, toughest moment of your&nbsp; three-year journey? The thorn is easy for me.&nbsp;&nbsp; What we call the blip, which is the coup of the&nbsp; board. That was a really tough moment. It's funny,&nbsp;&nbsp; because after the fact, it actually reunited&nbsp; quite a bit the company. There was a feeling,&nbsp;&nbsp; OpenAI had a pretty strong culture before, but&nbsp; there was a feeling of camaraderie, essentially,&nbsp;&nbsp; that was even stronger, but sure, tough on the&nbsp; day of. It's very rare to see that anti-fragility.&nbsp;&nbsp; Most orgs after something like that break&nbsp; apart, but I feel like OpenAI got stronger.&nbsp;&nbsp; OpenAI came back. It's a good point. I feel it&nbsp; made OpenAI stronger for real now, essentially,&nbsp;&nbsp; when they look after the fact. When they look&nbsp; at other news, like departures, or whatever,&nbsp;&nbsp; bad news, essentially, I feel the company has&nbsp; built a thicker skin and an ability to recover&nbsp;&nbsp; way quicker. I think it's definitely right. Part&nbsp; of it, too, I think is also just the culture. I&nbsp;&nbsp; also think this is why it was such a low point&nbsp; for a lot of people. So many people just at&nbsp;&nbsp; OpenAI care so deeply about what we're doing,&nbsp; which is why they work so hard. You just care&nbsp;&nbsp; a lot about the work. It almost feels like your&nbsp; life's worked. It's a very audacious mission and&nbsp;&nbsp; thing that you're doing, which is why I think the&nbsp; blip was so tough on a lot of people, but also is&nbsp;&nbsp; what I think helped bring people back together&nbsp; and how we were able to hold together and get&nbsp;&nbsp; that thick skin as well. I have a separate worst&nbsp; moment, which was the big outage that we had in&nbsp;&nbsp; December of last year. You remember. I do. It was&nbsp; like a multi-hour outage. Really highlights to&nbsp;&nbsp; us how essential of almost like a utility the API&nbsp; was. So the background is I think we had a three,&nbsp;&nbsp; four-hour outage sometime in November&nbsp; or December last year. Really brutal,&nbsp;&nbsp; pure set of zero. No one could hit chat GBT. No&nbsp; one could hit the APIs. It was really rough. That&nbsp;&nbsp; was just really tough just from a customer trust&nbsp; perspective. I remember we talked to a lot of our&nbsp;&nbsp; customers to kind of post-mortem them on what&nbsp; happened and kind of our plan moving forward.&nbsp;&nbsp; Thankfully, we haven't had anything close to that&nbsp; since then. I've been actually really happy with&nbsp;&nbsp; all the investments we've made in reliability&nbsp; over the last six months. But in that moment,&nbsp;&nbsp; I think it was really tough. On the happy side,&nbsp; like on the roses, I think I have two of them.&nbsp;&nbsp; The first one would be GPT-5 was really good. The&nbsp; sprint up to GPT-5, I think really showed the best&nbsp;&nbsp; of OpenAI. Having cutting edge, science research,&nbsp; extreme customer focus, extreme infrastructure and&nbsp;&nbsp; inference talent. The fact that we were able to&nbsp; ship such a big model and scale it to many, many,&nbsp;&nbsp; many tokens per minute almost immediately, I think&nbsp; speaks to it. That one I really-- With no outages.&nbsp;&nbsp; With no outages Yeah, really good reliability. I&nbsp; can remember when we shipped GPT-5 Turbo, like a&nbsp;&nbsp; year ago, a year and a half ago, we were terrified&nbsp; by the in-scale traffic. And I felt we've really&nbsp;&nbsp; gotten much better at shipping those massive&nbsp; updates. The second rose happy moment for me would&nbsp;&nbsp; be the first dev day was really fun. It felt like&nbsp; a coming of age, like OpenAI. We are embracing&nbsp;&nbsp; that we have a huge community of developers.&nbsp; We are going to ship models and products. And I&nbsp;&nbsp; remember basically seeing all my favorite people,&nbsp; OpenAI or not, essentially nerding out on what&nbsp;&nbsp; are you building, what's coming up next. It felt&nbsp; really like a special moment in time. That was&nbsp;&nbsp; actually going to be mine as well. So I'll just&nbsp; piggy back off of that, which is the very first&nbsp;&nbsp; dev day, 2023 November. I remember it. I mean,&nbsp; obviously a lot of good things have happened&nbsp;&nbsp; since then. There's just a very-- I don't know why&nbsp; for me. It was a very memorable moment, which was&nbsp;&nbsp; one, it was actually quite a rush up to dev day.&nbsp; We shipped a lot. So our team was just really,&nbsp;&nbsp; really sprinting. So it was like this high stress&nbsp; environment kind of going up. To add to that,&nbsp;&nbsp; of course, because we're OpenAI, we did a live&nbsp; demo on Sam's keynote of all the stuff that we&nbsp;&nbsp; shipped. And I just remember being in the back&nbsp; of the audience, sitting with the team, and&nbsp;&nbsp; waiting for the demo to happen. Once it finished&nbsp; happening, we all just let out a huge sigh of&nbsp;&nbsp; relief. We were like, oh my god, thank you. And so&nbsp; then there's just a lot of buildup to it. For me,&nbsp;&nbsp; the most memorable thing was I remember right&nbsp; after dev day, all the demos worked well, all&nbsp;&nbsp; the talks worked well. We had the after party, and&nbsp; then I was just in a Waymo driving home at night&nbsp;&nbsp; with the music playing. It was just such a great&nbsp; end to the dev day. That was what I remember.&nbsp;&nbsp; That was my rose for the last few years. Love it.&nbsp; That's awesome. I assume you guys are, but please&nbsp;&nbsp; tell me if you're AGI-pilled, yes or no? And if&nbsp; so, what was the moment that got you there? What&nbsp;&nbsp; was your aha moment? When did you feel the AGI?&nbsp; I think I'm AGI-pilled? I think I'm AGI-pilled.&nbsp;&nbsp; You're definitely AGIPilled. I am? I've had&nbsp; a couple of them. I've had a couple of them.&nbsp;&nbsp; The first one was the realization in 2023 that I&nbsp; would never need to code manually like ever ever&nbsp;&nbsp; again. I'm not the best coder, you know, I chose&nbsp; my job like for a reason. But realizing that what&nbsp;&nbsp; I thought was a given that we humans would have&nbsp; to write basically machine language forever is&nbsp;&nbsp; actually not a given. And that the pay surprise&nbsp; is huge. The second feel the AGI moment for me was&nbsp;&nbsp; maybe the progress on voice and multimodality.&nbsp; Like text, like at some point you get used to&nbsp;&nbsp; it. Like okay, the machine can write pretty&nbsp; good text. Voice makes it real. But once you&nbsp;&nbsp; start actually talking to something that actually&nbsp; understands your tone, like understand my accent&nbsp;&nbsp; like in French, it felt like sort of a moment,&nbsp; like okay, machines are going beyond like cold,&nbsp;&nbsp; mechanical, deterministic, like you know,&nbsp; like logic to something like much more like&nbsp;&nbsp; emotional and like, you know, tangible.&nbsp; Yeah, that's a great one. Yeah, mine are,&nbsp;&nbsp; I do think I am AGI-pilled. I probably gradually&nbsp; became AGI-pilled over the last couple of years.&nbsp;&nbsp; I think there are two. And for me, yeah, I think I&nbsp; actually get more shocked from the text models. I&nbsp;&nbsp; know the multimodal ones are really great as well.&nbsp; For me, I think they actually line up with two&nbsp;&nbsp; like general breakthroughs. So the first one was&nbsp; right when I joined the company in September 2022.&nbsp;&nbsp; It was pre-ChatGPT. Yeah, two months ago. About&nbsp; the time GPT-4 already existed internally. And I&nbsp;&nbsp; think we were trying to figure out how to deploy.&nbsp; I think Nick Turley talked about this a lot early&nbsp;&nbsp; as a chat GPT. But it was the first time I talked&nbsp; to GPT-4. And it was like going from nothing to&nbsp;&nbsp; GPT-4 was just the most mind-blowing experience&nbsp; for me. I think for the rest of the world,&nbsp;&nbsp; maybe going from nothing to GPT-3.5 in chat was&nbsp; maybe the big one and then going from 3.5 to 4.&nbsp;&nbsp; But for me, and I think for a lot of maybe some&nbsp; other people who joined around that time, going&nbsp;&nbsp; from nothing to, or not nothing, but like what was&nbsp; publicly available at the time. Going from that to&nbsp;&nbsp; GPT-4 was just incredible. Like I just remember&nbsp; asking, throwing so many things out. I was like,&nbsp;&nbsp; there's no way this thing is going to be&nbsp; able to give an intelligible answer. And&nbsp;&nbsp; it just like knocks it out of the park. It&nbsp; was absolutely incredible. GPT-4 was insane.&nbsp;&nbsp; I remember GPT-4 came out when I was interviewing&nbsp; with OpenAI. And I was still looking at the phone,&nbsp;&nbsp; should I join? And so that thing, I was like,&nbsp; okay. I mean, there is no way I can walk on&nbsp;&nbsp; anything else at that point. That's true. Yeah, so&nbsp; GPT-4 was just crazy. And then the other one was,&nbsp;&nbsp; like, is the other breakthrough, which is like the&nbsp; reasoning paradigm. I actually think the purest&nbsp;&nbsp; representation of that for me was deep research.&nbsp; And throwing, like, asking it to really look up&nbsp;&nbsp; things that I didn't think it would be able to&nbsp; know. And seeing it think through all of it,&nbsp;&nbsp; be really persistent with the search, get really&nbsp; detailed with the write-up and all of that. That&nbsp;&nbsp; was pretty crazy. I don't remember the exact&nbsp; query that I threw it, but I just remember, I&nbsp;&nbsp; feel like the field AGI moments for me are, like,&nbsp; I'll throw something at the model that I was like,&nbsp;&nbsp; there's no way this thing will be able to get. And&nbsp; then it just like knocks it out of the park. Like,&nbsp;&nbsp; that is kind of the field AGI moment. I&nbsp; definitely had that with deep research&nbsp;&nbsp; with some of the things I was asking. Yeah.&nbsp; Well, this has been great. Thank you so much,&nbsp;&nbsp; folks. You guys are building the future. You guys&nbsp; are inspiring us every day. And appreciate the&nbsp;&nbsp; conversation. Yeah, thank you so much. Thank&nbsp; you. Thanks for having us. [MUSIC PLAYING]&nbsp;&nbsp; As a reminder to everybody, just&nbsp; our opinions, not investment advice.
