# Conversion tracking: Why your campaigns will fail without proper conversion tracking

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** the-google-ads-success-formula
- **Section:** The Google Ads Success Formula
- **Duration:** 20:26
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

In this lesson, we're going to dive deeper into conversion tracking and why your campaigns will fail without a proper conversion tracking setup. So in this lesson, you will learn why conversion tracking is a non-negotiable, what poor conversion tracking leads to, and we will tell you more about our measurement maturity framework that learns you how to create a solid conversion tracking foundation, how you can enhance that foundation with even more conversion data and how you can correct your data set if your conversion data is incorrect or incomplete for example so if we look at the overarching framework you can see that without a conversion tracking setup you're essentially blind and i also i always compare this with running google ads without conversion tracking is like driving a Ferrari blindfolded because you're sitting in this great, powerful machine that is capable on doing so many amazing things. But if you are not able to harness all of its power, you're essentially not making the most out of it. And that's a shame. That's not what you want. So you always want to have a solid conversion tracking setup when running Google Ads. So conversion tracking is the foundation of success because every successful Google Ads campaign is built on conversion data. It is also your window into what works and what doesn't work. If you run a proper conversion tracking setup, you can easily see, hey, this campaign is hitting my efficiency targets. Maybe I can scale it up or this particular ad group or this particular underlying keyword is way too expensive. Maybe I have to pause it or maybe I have to optimize it in a way that it is going to work. So with conversion tracking, you're able to do all of that. And also the other way around, if you don't have any data, you're flying blind with your ad spend. You have no idea what's working and what's not working. And the same applies to smart bidding because Google AI essentially relies on conversion data in order to make decisions as well. So conversion tracking is the difference between making data-driven decisions and guesswork. And you always want to eliminate guesswork when we're doing Google Ads, because, well, Google Ads can be somewhat of an exact science. Obviously, conversion tracking isn't always 100% complete due to a number of occasions, but we will dive into that in the conversion tracking module. But you can eliminate guesswork as far as possible. So we want to do that by setting up a proper conversion tracking setup. like i said already google's ai need quality data quality conversion data in order to make smart decisions that's why it's called smart bidding if you're removing the quality conversion data from the equation it will it will be called bidding and not smart bidding at all because it needs quality data in order to make smart decisions so machine learning relies heavily on conversion signals. And if you're able to make all of those signals, if you give all of those signals data, which Google AI can then use in order to set the appropriate bids, then that will lead to better bidding decisions. So what does poor conversion tracking leads to? It leads to suboptimal results because Google's algorithms need a lot of conversion data to function properly. And if you don't maximize the quality data input, it will lead to inconsistent results. It will also result in an extended learning phase because without enough conversion data, the system takes longer to learn what works and what doesn't work, extending the learning phase. And that will mean that you will need more ad spend in order to make your campaigns profitable before your campaigns are actually going to run more consistently on target and that's not what you want you want to shorten the learning phase you want to shorten the the expansion phase so you can do that by basically maximizing your quality data input number three inaccurate predictions the system google ai may make less informed informed and less accurate predictions about which bits will result in conversions resulting in inefficiencies and obviously it will also result in inefficient spend because budgets will be allocated less effectively resulting in inefficient spend so your conversion data is tied to all kinds of dimensions so not only smart bidding is using it to to set bits on the keyword level but it's also taking into account all of these other variables that basically where conversion data is being tied to so next to your keyword bits smart bidding is going to look at the time of the day the day of the week your audience signals is going to look at the device and the historical conversion rates from that particular device for example if android is converting better than ios then it's able to set higher bits for android versus ios it's looking at the location real time on the auction level so if people from for example amsterdam are converting way better than people from the eastern part of the netherlands then you're able to set more competitive bits for amsterdam and maybe less competitive bits for the region in the eastern part of the netherlands because it's converting less good and that applies to all of these unique variables and combined you're talking about multiple multiple variables that google is taking into consideration when setting the bit on the auction level so it's taking all of these signals into consideration in milliseconds and then deciding okay based on all of these data points that i have i'm going to set an optimal bid for that particular auction to make the most out of it to basically maximize the ad rank within your your targets your efficiency targets like your target cpa or target row s so that means that you better have a proper setup because if you don't have a proper setup it will trickle down to all of these underlying variables and that means that smart bidding won't be able to set the optimal bid and you will essentially miss out on a lot of a lot of optimal bits and that's going to hurt performance. So that's why I'm going to introduce the measurement maturity framework that we have created in order to make sense of everything that we can do in terms of conversion tracking. And it's a lot and it's basically the most technical part of Google Ads. So therefore we tried to make this as simple as possible. So it's easy to get lost in all of the tracking possibilities within Google Ads. It's easy to forget about certain tracking techniques it's easy to prioritize or deprioritize certain techniques incorrectly where some techniques are more important than the other and you have to know where to begin with so therefore we created this particular model this particular framework because it covers all of the current existing high impact tracking techniques it also indicates the level of your current tracking setup and it shows you where to start and where to end in a logical way so this is our measurement maturity framework and as you can see you want to start with creating a solid foundation in step one so you want to look at those techniques first before looking at enhancing your data set with advanced features in the second step if you if you have completed all of that the the techniques that are logical for your particular vertical. Then you can move to the last step, which is essentially step number three, where you're going to correct your data set. So as you can see, a lot of different techniques have been listed here. I'm not going to go over every single technique in this particular video, but we are going to dive deeper into the conversion tracking module in this particular course that will help you to make sense of it all. So you better understand why certain techniques are so important so let's start with the tlvr of the first step starting with a solid foundation of for your conversion tracking so what do you want to do for the first step you essentially want to implement server site tagging also called sst you want to implement the google ads conversion pixel also known as gact for all website conversions and you want to implement offline conversion tracking also known as OCT for all off-site conversions so everything that happens off-site not on your website but basically offline. OCT is generally speaking only relevant for lead gen SaaS not so relevant for e-com but once again we will dive deeper into every single step and every single technique with the appropriate applications in the future lesson so if you do this right it will essentially lead to more data over here you can see a summary of different conversion actions where you can see a gf4 purchase event import which is the yellow one over here and in the month of april i received close to 600 conversions that were imported. But if you look at the Google Ads conversion tracking pixel, which is basically this one, Profitmetrics Revenue Browser, which is a website pixel, also known as GACT, you will see that already this particular conversion action received way more conversion data than your GA4 import. And you will see that in most of the cases. So therefore, I always recommend you to rely on a GACT conversion tracking method instead of relying on GA4 imports. GA4 imports may be relatively simple, but you will miss out on conversion data and that is going to lead to suboptimal data signals for smart bidding. You can also see the conversion booster, which is essentially an offline conversion tracking method that sends over additional conversion data that wasn't being able to capture with your GACT Google as conversion tracking pixel. So that's going to lead to even more data, hence it's called the conversion booster because it gives you more conversion data, but once again, we will dive deeper into that in the conversion tracking setups later. After this particular lesson, it also gives you more insights. If you do it properly, you can also see that you can measure all of your micro conversions in a appropriate manner. So you can measure your add to carts, you can measure your begin checkouts, you can measure your few items, you can measure your few carts, and those signals can be used to for more insights, but also for optimization purposes, if you lack a primary conversion action data. So for example, if your regular Google ads conversion tracking pixel lacks conversion volume, you sometimes have to decide to rely on a micro conversion, like an add to cart or a big, begin checkout in order to properly feed the algorithm. More insights over here as well, where you can see that you can have few through conversions for your upper funnel campaigns and PMX as well. When relying on Google ads, conversion tracking actions instead of a G4 import. So it's giving you more, more data as well that you can use to optimize for but also for more insights you can also use your attribution reports in a better way to receive more insights for example if you want to understand the click and view assists or click and view assist value per campaign type per campaign so that's what you can do with a proper conversion tracking setup as well once your solid foundation is in place you can start enhancing your foundation and your initial data set with more advanced conversion tracking features. You can implement enhanced conversions to improve attribution. You can implement Google Consent Mode and fill in the gaps with conversion modeling. You can implement conversion with car data to understand what people click on and what people buy. You can implement profit tracking to measure and optimize for profit instead of revenue tracking. You can implement new customer data to segment new versus returning customers inside Google Ads. You can implement transaction IDs to avoid duplicate conversions. And lastly, you can also implement custom variables to gain business specific insights. So this once again leads to more data. As you can see over here, when conversion mode was implemented and conversion modeling became active, we received an uplift close to 5%. in more conversion data. And 5% sounds like a small uplift, but if you add up all of the conversion tracking foundation enhancements, then every percent is leading to more and more quality conversion tracking data. And that will mean that you will win more easily from direct competitors because you're the one relying on more conversion data signals and your direct peers, your direct competitors hopefully not so this will essentially create an edge and apart from that it will also lead to more insights so over here you can see profit tracking being active where you can see that i have segmented my campaign performances by month where you can also see the revenue the ROAS based on the revenue you can see the gross profit the net profit and also the POAS the profit on ad spend. So you can use profit tracking to also understand the profitability of certain campaigns and where to optimize towards. So instead of relying on optimizing for revenue, you can start optimizing for actual profit. And that's a big shift towards staring towards profitability instead of just revenue growth. Over here, you can see a segmented campaign by new versus returning customers so after implementing the new versus returning customers feature you can then easily segment your campaigns by new versus returning customer and this will help you to better understand if your conversions are coming from new customers or returning customers so this will give you more insights to work with as well and sometimes this will lead to a different strategy or different tactics because as you can see over here my non-branded campaigns that starts with 02 and 05 are bringing in a lot of returning customers and I'm paying for those returning customers in the same manner as my new customers and I might want to bid more aggressively for new customer acquisition and less aggressively for returning customers and right now everything is being bid on in the same manner so you can better understand the new first returning customer shift but also you can use it for new customer acquisition goals and different tactics over here you can see custom variables being imported this is an implementation i did recently for one of my existing customers so over here i wanted to understand what kind of payment methods were being used by the users to better understand what payment method people are using and how the share of those payment methods are looking at the total conversion volumes and you can use this for for more insights to maybe also use them for conversion tracking or conversion optimization on your payment method page and there are so many more different conversion signals and custom variables that you can import to to better understand what's actually happening and to optimize for certain things so next to payment methods you can also think about really business specific custom variables that matter to your business that you would like to see that you would like to analyze and you that you want to optimize for and answer your data also gives you more metrics so these metrics all open up if you for example implement conversions with car data you're able to see the product that people clicked on the product listing ad and also the product that people actually bought to better understand the links between okay this particular product is bringing in a lot of clicks and also it is converting but is but is it the product that people are actually buying or are people buying a different product once they are in our web shop so you can understand more about that and also more about your cost of goods sold and profitability by by basically enhancing your conversion data set with conversions with car data so lastly you can use our framework to correct your data set to by using conversion adjustments to remove conversions or change conversion values or you can use data exclusions to clean up your conversion data so over here you can see that my conversion data was corrected after this particular customer received a big return of a very large order if you compare it by looking at the gross profit from the original conversions and then the adjustments to basically account for that particular return to show the real results in google ads but also to tell smart bidding like hey instead of the original gross profit within the first campaign that was 2150 euros we now had to deduct 750 euros in terms of gross profit so that will result in not 2150 euros in gross profit but close to 1400 euros that you will now have to work with when setting new bids in the future so this way you can make adjustments but also see the real results after partially returns or fully returns or canceled reservations and stuff like that. And lastly, you can use data exclusions to give smart bidding a better data input. So sometimes your conversion tracking breaks down or there are other issues with your website or webshop. In that case, you can set up a data exclusion to essentially improve the input to google ai and to smart bidding and that will lead to more solid performances where basically conversion tracking does not take into account your data exclusion period where your conversion tracking broke down for example so it doesn't affect your bids etc so key takeaways conversion tracking isn't just about tracking conversions it's about understanding your customer's journey by basically measuring macro conversions and also micro conversions. It's crucial for automation success when you're leveraging Google AI solutions such as smart bidding, target CPA, target ROAS, responsive search ads, optimized targeting, whatever. Everything that is Google AI related heavily relies on quality conversion data and it powers all of your optimization decisions. It doesn't only power optimization decisions by google ai such as smart bidding but obviously you are also looking at your conversion data and using your conversion data to decide to reallocate budgets to pause enable certain campaigns ad groups etc so having a solid conversion tracking setup is crucial for success
