# Targeting: Why your campaigns will fail without the right targeting

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** the-google-ads-success-formula
- **Section:** The Google Ads Success Formula
- **Duration:** 50:37
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

Your campaigns will fail if you aren't using the correct targeting criteria and the correct targeting options. So in this lesson, I'm going to tell you how the targeting criteria has changed throughout the last couple of years and what's likely to expect the upcoming years ahead, why you should consider adopting newer targeting criteria types such as broad match and optimized targeting over the more traditional targeting criteria that we're used to using inside of Google ads and i'm going to teach you the three pillars of modern day targeting that you can consider adopting in your google ads accounts so let's start by looking at the google ad success formula and where targeting fits in so without proper targeting you can see that your campaigns will become inaccurate because you're not going to target the right audience you're going to miss out on conversion value value and conversion volume and that's not what you want so you need to adopt newer targeting strategies and newer targeting tactics in order to leverage Google AI and in order to stay ahead of your competitors. So the way we target is changing forever. It has already changed a lot throughout the last couple of years. For example, three years ago, exact match was still exact. Right now it's more like phrase match and it's starting to look like broad match in some cases. A couple of years ago, we didn't have stuff like optimized targeting, and we had to target and rely more on contextual targeting, for example. First-party data wasn't really a thing right now with the disappearing of third-party cookies. We need to rely on first-party. So the way we target is changing forever, and it's an ever-changing landscape. So what I'm teaching in this particular lesson right now will be outdated in two years ahead. So we will have to stay on track with the ever-changing landscape and we need to adopt in order to win from our competitors. Google's AI is getting smarter, third-party cookies are disappearing and first-party data is becoming the new digital gold. So we have to once again adapt to the current best practices and the current ideal landscape. So I want to start with a little game analogy because over here we like to nerd out to give you some more idea about how targeting has changed throughout the last couple of years so let's start with the early game so this was prior 2018 when manual bidding was still king i still look back at those kinds of years with a lot of fun because google s was way more technical i think and way more a nerdy game where you really needed to excel in terms of tactics right now i think tactics matter way less than prior 2018 because over there all we had all we had to do as a google ads specialist was to basically harness advanced tactics within google ads to easily win from our competitors and in this day of age exact match meant really exact match keywords were everything we had simple audience targeting we had direct control over targeting variables and Google AI didn't really mess up our tactics, but this is a thing from the past because right now we are in 2025 when recording this particular video. So this is like seven years ago and even more. Then talking mid game between 2018 and 2021, match types began to expand. The close variants became the new normal. We all accepted the close variants because it brought in additional volume and a lot of times it brought in additional conversions as well exact match started to include intent as well phrase match absorbed broad match modified which was also a really fun match type to work with in my personal opinion audio starting became more sophisticated over here smart bidding gained a prominence because prior to 2018 while we didn't have smart bidding everything was like manual CPC. And within this particular era, mid-game, we started to get a sense of what Google AI could do for us as Google S specialists. Google, so we could more easily adopt to all of the unique long tail searches that basically improved every single year on year in terms of newer, more unique searches. And right now we're in the late game And this is going to adapt even more. So after 2021, Performance Max was introduced, which basically optimized across the full Google ecosystem, where Google also had automated audience discovery. So this is where you're starting to fully rely on Google AI to essentially hit your goals to, for example, hit your growth goals or efficiency goals. broad match evolved from problematic to prevert right now i'm utilizing broad match in a lot of accounts because it has become so much better than for example a couple of years ago around 2021 2022 it was still shit but right now it has evolved and in combination with smart bidding it really works optimized targeting was introduced and smart bidding became the standard because right now. If you're doing your job in a proper manner and you're not leveraging one of the very few advanced tactics, then smart bidding should become your standard and you should be leveraging maximized conversions, maximized conversion value with or without a target CPA or target ROAS. So a lot has been changed and I see the next couple of years, this being changed again, where we might rely even more on first-party data, on audience targeting instead of keyword targeting, because I think that's where we're heading. So today's reality. Today's reality is where human strategy is more important than manual control. Manual control is a thing from the past, in my opinion, because I think AI drives smarter and better targeting decisions. We guide as a Google S specialist, and we let Google AI, like smart bidding, decide what bits are going to be set, what potential customers are going to be targeted. So automation is the default, and manual options are slowly fading away. Recently, we saw enhanced CPC fade away. So right now, an NCPC is a thing of the past, and we will see that those things will continue to happen in the next couple of years, where automation is going to be the default even more. First-party data is the new targeting currency that we need to adopt because, well, stuff like third-party cookie restrictions and targeting restrictions, or sorry, tracking restrictions are messing with our targeting capabilities. So first-party data is becoming more and more important, privacy changes, force a reshape of audience strategies, and simplification is inevitable as AI handles all of the complexities within our accounts. For example, smart bidding is really smart at finding patterns and trends inside of your account. And in combination with broad match, you can, you can surface with a really simple account structure so to say so there's no need to over complicate there's no need to create these advanced tactics within your account because i think google ai can do a way way way better job than we as google as specialists so how do we win in this new era so let's start with keyword targeting and then in the second section of this lesson we will zoom into audience targeting so search behavior has changed a lot throughout the last couple of years because prior to 2016 the internet was still relatively new although it was around for 15 plus years already but people still searched with a lot of simple queries because the web wasn't as extended as it is now content was relatively scarce i'm talking relatively over here so people they used to they They were used to use generic searches like, okay, I'm looking for spaghetti or I'm looking for Italian pasta. I'm looking for a pasta recipe. I'm looking to how to cook pasta. I'm looking for a tomato pasta recipe. So as you can see, people were used to searching for generic, more generic queries. But as the web evolved and the web become more and more complete in terms of content items, people began to understand that they could use really specific search queries to find where they were looking for. So people started to include long tail keywords like healthy pasta recipes, or authentic Italian pasta recipe, or quick tomato pasta recipe for two. So since the content evolved, and the web contained more and more content items, Google was able to essentially also serve users that were searching for these long-tail queries the right content items and right now in the present day of age people understand that they can be even more specific because essentially everything you're looking for on the worldwide web especially with now also the AI generated answers by Google people can understand that they can search for everything So people start searching for stuff like gluten-free vegan pasta recipe under 500 calories, all the way up to quick and easy tomato recipe for two ready in 15 minutes. And Google will make sure to tailor the results to those particular long tail queries. So that means that essentially searches become longer and longer and longer, and also more difficult to bid on as advertisers every single year. Because if you look at internal Google data from April 2022, searches with one to two words increased 14% year-on-year, searches with three to four words increased 20% year-on-year, and searches containing four words increased 26% year-on-year. So as you can see, searches are becoming more long-tail and more complex every single year. And we're looking at data from 2022 over here. imagine how the data set is looking looking like right now so this is you going to be with your outdated keyword strategy if you don't adopt in this case you will simply miss out on a lot of conversion volume and those conversions will end up in your competitors accounts and that's not what you want so keyword targeting has changed because google properly understands intent behind every single user query they don't just understand words right now so instead of just syntax matching they now also understand semantic matching and that essentially means that they understand the intent behind every search so even though searches might be really generic where the user isn't really clear on what they're looking for google is still able to decode that particular generic search because they have so much more different signals behind the behind the curtain essentially that they can use in order to properly decode that particular user query because google knows about our previous search history they know about all of the web pages we have visited they know about the videos we we we watched on youtube for example they have so much information that they can leverage now especially with ai so they can better understand what people are looking for so they can serve the most the best appropriate results so to say and that's why match types aren't what they used to be so if you take a look at exact match for example exact match isn't really exact anymore previously exact match was about syntax matching and we only wanted to trigger ads when the search query exactly matched our exact match keyword. Right now, it's more acting like broad match sometimes where the actual query can be a lot different from our exact match keyword. But since people are having a similar intent that Google understands, your ad can still be triggered. And I think that's a good thing because that way you are not losing out on potential conversions and you're broadening up your keyword coverage essentially so i think fighting the algorithm right now is a never-ending struggle i still see people struggling and fighting with the algorithm by excluding close variants and making sure that they are not getting triggered by exact match keywords for example i think you don't want to do that you don't want to fight the system right now you want to harness all of the the good things that come with it and yes sometimes that means that you're losing out of control and sometimes google is making really stupid decisions and they are messing with your with your proper setup but it's all for a higher cost so to say and that is basically leading to more conversions and more conversion value excessive granularity also hurts performance and costing you money so really granular looking keyword targeting options is also a thing of the past right now you can leverage broad match keywords for example that is that are able to target a lot of different queries and previously we had to leverage a lot of exact match and phrase match keywords in order to have the same keyword coverage so a lot has been changed the last couple of years so i hate to admit this but I will admit it I think broad match plus smart bidding is going to be the new normal it's not only going to be the new normal I think it is already the new normal and you need to adapt in order to not fall behind so broad match is I think the only match type you need if you have performance goals and pair it with smart bidding including challenging targets so I think broad BroadMatch reaches more users and more potential customers, PhraseMatch reaches all of the same queries that ExactMatch reaches and more, but BroadMatch reaches all of the same queries PhraseMatch and ExactMatch reaches and more. So by incorporating BroadMatch within your keyword strategy and pairing it with smart bidding plus challenging targets, you can essentially improve and increase your reach. BroadMatch also uses more signals. user signals that phrase match and exact match cannot use. I still find it weird that Google is not leveraging those signals for phrase match and exact match. But I think they do that to improve the adaptation of a broad match because it makes sense to adopt broad match because it can leverage more data signals, so to say, and broad match lastly has more data to optimize because smart bidding works best in full broad match campaigns because it can aggregate all of the available data to optimize against your goals as always there are multiple nuances so sometimes broad match plus smart bidding doesn't work and doesn't outperform exact plus phrase match but those are nuances generally speaking i think broad match is going to be the new standard and you need to adopt to not fall behind so let's zoom in so as you can see broad match reaches more users it simply it simply captures all of the all of the traffic from exact match and phrase match and and more and you're basically allowing smart google ai to target more loosely and to search for newer long tail queries that you haven't think thought of before and that way you can essentially improve your your reach and increase the amount of conversion volume it also uses more signals like i said already it can take into consideration landing page in order to understand the context of your broad match keyword so they know what you're trying to target they also look at different keywords in the same ad group to understand the meaning behind the broad match keyword they also take into consideration user signals like previous searches and user location and like i said already i find it very weird that they are not using these two signals for exact match and phrase match as well because they're sitting on the same data but i think they are leveraging these signals in order to improve broad match performance and hopefully increase adaptation of broad match so i think that's why they're doing this and lastly broad match has more data to optimize for because by consolidating traffic and using broad match and pairing with us with smart bidding with challenging targets algorithms are able to aggregate all of your data points making it easier to solve the puzzle so on the left hand side you see a fragmented data Set up where you have a lot of different unique pieces of the puzzle. And if you're, if you're leveraging broad match, you essentially make the puzzle easier for, for Google AI to make, and therefore that leads to faster and more consistent results. Besides that, I think it's also going to make your puzzle bigger simultaneously and therefore increasing the amounts of interesting, relevant searches you can bring in from your campaigns to your website to hopefully increase conversion volumes and conversion value even more. So Broadmatch also continues to outperform in most of the cases. So right now in more than 75% of my accounts, Broadmatch is the new standard where I'm leveraging full Broadmatch across all of my search campaigns, except my branded search campaigns where I'm still relying on exact match and phrase match but yeah broad match continues to outperform so what I would like to recommend you to do is if you're still relying on phrase match and exact match is to run a 50-50 campaign experiment to see if a full broad match campaign experiment can outperform your phrase plus exact match campaign which is your original campaign in terms of click volume conversion volume within your efficiency targets so over here you can see that my experiments which are my full broad match campaign experiments really outperformed my my original campaigns consisting of phrase match and exact match heavily so over here i adopted full broad match immediately over here a broad match also outperformed in most of the campaigns as you can see conversion volume increased in two of the three cases the cpa went down and in two of the three cases my gross profit actually went up and my poas my profit on ad spend increased so over here i applied broad match within the winning campaign experiments as well so i think broad match is now your new foundation if it outperforms your existing setup and it shouldn't be your enemy and yes i cannot believe i said that but yeah times change and google ai continues to improve so like i said in more than 75 percent of all of my accounts i run full broad match and i think that's going to be increasing from now on as well because i continuously continuously try to relaunch campaign experiments where try to test with full broad match now and then to see if a broad match as a match type has become better in order to see if it can outperform my more traditional setup where combined phrase match plus exact match so over here you can see a campaign where rely on full broad match where it is simply outperformed phrase match plus exact match and i think we're going to be seeing more of that in the next couple of years ahead if we're still going to have keyword targeting in a couple of years so interesting fact google's algorithm prioritize eligible keywords that are identical to the search term or the spell corrected search term across all available match types if you use broad match keywords and want to ensure traffic goes to the keywords that are identical to the search term you don't need to repeat the same keywords in phrase match and exact match so you don't need to leverage phrase match and exact match if you already adopted broad match that's only going to make it more difficult for ai to understand what you're trying to do it's leading to scattered data fragmented data inside of your account so if you're going to migrate to broad match because it outperformed generally speaking exact match and phrase match aren't needed anymore if you still want to have more insights on the keyword level or you want to dynamically insert your keywords into your ads through dynamic keyword insertion then i understand that you still are trying to add as many as high volume keywords as possible but they can simply be broad match instead of exact match so no need to to use all of the match types combined. Never ever use broad match without using smart bidding because that's going to lead to a lot of fuck-ups. So broad match without smart bidding is a money pit. Smart bidding without using challenging targets is going to lead to waste. And smart bidding plus challenging efficiency targets like a challenging target CPA and challenging target growers that the algorithm needs to work for, plus utilizing Broadmatch, that is going to lead to a controlled scaling, scaling opportunities. So never, ever launch Broadmatch without smart bidding, like Broadmatch plus manual CPC or Broadmatch plus maximized clicks is going to be a money pit where you're going to waste a lot of ad spend. And if you're targeting, sorry, if your targets are too loose which are really easy to hit by the algorithm by smart bidding then broad match is going to go too far in terms of keyword coverage as well where they're going to try to reach well irrelevant queries irrelevant people as well so if your if your targets aren't challenging you will see a lot of irrelevant search queries pop up inside of your search term report and that's not what you want so make sure that you utilize smart bidding plus challenging targets plus broad match and that will lead to a controlled scaling environment so i think smart bidding plus broad match is the real power pair because smart bidding processes hundreds of real-time signals that you as a google s specialist cannot process with manual cpc for example it predicts conversion likelihood it adjusts bits auction by auction so on the auction level you aren't really able to set bits through manual cpc on the auction level you can only adjust your bits afterwards by looking at a big data set so it's really imperfect in a way and it optimizes for maximum conversions or maximum conversion value where broad match is trying to find new converting queries every single day it is trying to increase your reach potential and trying to increase your click volume and also conversion volume within your efficiency targets within smart bidding it also understands context beyond keywords and it adapts to search behavior changes throughout the next couple of years ahead so if you combine the two then you essentially have the power pair where smart bidding controls exploration it keeps spent focused on likely converters it scales profitably within your targets it creates a self-improving system where broad match is trying to look for new long tail search queries that you haven't targeted before where smart bidding is trying to to look at the conversion likability the likelihood of conversion over there if that is in fact the case it will set an appropriate bit and it will hopefully get in that click and get in that conversion it reduces management over overhead by a mile and you can adapt to market and search behavior changes like i said already so if the landscape is changing people are going to start searching in a different way then you are one step ahead and you are already adapting to the new normal so key takeaways for keyword targeting are that broad match is your new foundation you always want to experiment broad match first and to see if it can actually outperform phrase match and exact match because there are still cases where it doesn't outperform and there are still nuances where exact match and phrase match are just more relevant to use instead of broad match but generally speaking it is your new foundation smart bidding is going to be mandatory when using broad match it focuses on intent it doesn't focus on syntax matching you want to let google ai explore and learn you want to have google ai to work for you and to get in new new traffic and as many conversions as possible and instead of fighting the system you want to essentially guide the system where you are going to feed the algorithm with high quality conversion signals with appropriate targets with appropriate keywords and that way you will essentially make the most out of it let's continue with audience targeting so the last couple of years we saw big privacy and AI related changes. For example, by looking at the privacy changes, Apple introduced tracking limitations coming from iOS 14.5. We saw Chrome trying to phase out third party cookies. We saw introductions of GDPR and privacy related laws. We saw Google trying to introduce their privacy sandbox. And basically all of this is being introduced by big companies but also local governments in order to safeguard the privacy of their people their users but on the other hand we as advertisers are being restricted in terms of tracking capabilities but also targeting capabilities so big companies like google and like meta try to launch new products and new features often ai related features to still find ways to target our potential customers. So on the other hand, we saw big products and features being introduced like Performance Max in order to target potential customers across the full Google ecosystem, heavily relying on AI. We saw an evolution in smart bidding. We saw audience signals being introduced instead of targeting. We saw the introduction of AI-related features such as optimized targeting, similar audiences, which are basically enhanced AI targeting features. And all of this is being introduced in order to leverage AI and machine learning to still make it possible to target the potential customer in a really privacy-centric new world, so to say. So these are the things that we know right now. I think privacy changes aren't stopping at all. I do think manual control is slowly fading away because that's what we're already seeing with, for example, the introduction of smart bidding, the shift towards broad match instead of phrase and exact match. I think that's going to happen with regards to audience targeting as well. That is already being introduced. And AI targeting is getting smarter every single day. So this means we have to adapt and future-proof our targeting once again. so you can think about this as having two different kinds of Porsches you have one older Porsche that basically illustrates outdated audience targeting tactics and you've also got a newer one illustrating signal powered AI targeting and the question is going to be which Porsche do you want to be in at a traffic light sprint with one of your direct competitors maybe you have to race another Porsche you or you have to race a Ferrari. In that case, I know what kind of vehicle I would like to be in. And this basically illustrates how you need to level up your targeting game and adopt all of the AI related features to win in this era. Because if you're still leveraging outdated audience targeting tactics, I think you're losing out and your competitors might win in the long end. So in order to win, we introduced this three pillar framework of modern day targeting, where we're basically going to harness the signals over selection principle times relying on first party data focus times AI expansion. So we're going to zoom in on every single pillar of this framework. First, we're going to zoom in on signals over selection. So what does this mean? You have to move from choosing predefined audiences to layering custom valuable signals. You want to think like an AI coach over here that is guiding the AI rather than a controller where you're starting to dictate AI and you're setting boundaries. You want to provide clues. You want to provide AI and the campaign with a lot of valuable clues so they can start exploring and looking for potential customers in the full Google ecosystem. The more valuable your signals are, the stronger your AI guidance will be. Over here, it's obviously that the quality of your signals matter a lot. So you always have to think about quality over quantity in order to perfectly instruct AI and guide AI the correct way. So here are a couple of key signals to consider you can consider custom audience segments high quality customer match lists and valuable pixel based remarketing lists where you're for example remarketing website visitors that doesn't mean that predefined segments such as in market or affinity audiences are wrong but they are incredibly broad generally speaking therefore when you ask me i like to only select them if they perfectly fit with who you're trying to reach so sometimes a predefined in market audience segment or an affinity list can be relatively niche and in that case where it's 100% relevant you can then also throw that into the mix but if it's not really 100% perfect and what you're looking for then I would like to urge you to stay away from that particular segment and And that is because they are really, really broad. So there's an important note. The moment you enable a Google AI expansion features like optimized targeting, also known as OT or similar audiences in audience audiences like demand gen, you're no longer targeting the specific audience segments, placements, et cetera. You have selected in your targeting mix. so to say. In this case, you're starting to provide signals for AI exploration. And this is why I like to refer to them as signals instead of targeting. Because if you want to fully harness AI, you are in fact going to start using features like optimized targeting and similar audiences. And if you're going to start using them, the targeting criteria do not matter at all. they have become signals. So you have to keep that in mind. So let's look at the second pillar of the modern day targeting framework. So what does first party data focus mean? You want to move from borrowed audiences to leveraging your own customer data. Every single business is sitting on a big database of customer data, for example, email lists or phone numbers. And you can basically use that data to transition from being a data borrower to a data owner. So instead of relying on predefined audience segments by Google, you can now basically upload your own customer data in order to guide AI based on your first party data, so to say. And your customer data reveals true intent and they are not being proxy signals. These are actually customers or people that have interacted with a customer with a specific part of your business by downloading in resource for example so they are meaningful to you and if you're telling google that google can then extract the information on the on the email level for example they can match it with google accounts and in that way they can see what kind of customer traits there are within that particular customer data segment so that means that based on your data google can find similar looking google profiles so to say in their full google ecosystem so the better you know your customers the better you can guide google ai as well so it is really about perfecting your first party data uploads over here and thinking about how you can leverage your first party data over here to create an edge in your targeting. And obviously over here, quality matters a lot more over quantity. So make sure to always be very precise in the data sets that you upload and the data sets that you're going to use in your targeting capabilities. For example, I still see a lot of people uploading all of the historical customer data of a particular customer to be used in targeting criteria but I think you need to be more precise so you need to look at okay by looking at my customer segments is there a way that I can segment them in a better way so they make more sense so I'm able to improve the quality of my segments instead of just uploading everything that you have because there will be a lot of trash involved as well. So leveraging first party data has many benefits and it's not just targeting. There are other benefits involved. You have additional input for smart bidding and optimized targeting as well because customer lists are used in smart bidding and optimized targeting to feed the algorithm with additional first party data points to help you get the most performance possible so you can head over to your account settings find the customer match setting and see if you have toggled this setting on and if you have uploaded first party data then smart bidding and optimized targeting is going to use your uploaded first party data in order to set better bids or find better lookalikes so to say you can also future proof your targeting criteria because we're still moving away to a cookie-less world where customer match lists will continue to enable you to reach your most valuable users without relying on traditional tech-based website visitors or predefined audience segments. So in this case, if you can create a lot of high-quality segments, then you can start relying on those kinds of segments in combination with Google AI features like optimized targeting to find new lookalikes based on your best performing customer segment, so to say. And you can do lots of different things using customer lists. You can, for example, reach existing customers with the goal of cross or upselling products they may like. You can reach existing customers with special offers and messaging across Google's full ecosystem. You can try to reactivate dormant customers If you are, for example, active in the SaaS business, because you can easily create a dormant, inactive customer segment uploaded to Google Ads, try to remarket them and try to reactivate them. You can reach new customers similar to your most valuable customers by utilizing optimized targeting or lookalikes within your demand chain campaign, for example. You can use your Black Friday email list of last year in order to target similar looking profiles with new exclusive Black Friday deals. There's just so much more opportunity over here that you can think about when leveraging first party data. It can also be used for reporting insights because if you upload your first party data segments to customer lists and you are adding them as observation lists to your campaigns, you can also see how people that are active in that particular list interact with your campaigns, so to say. So you can also find out about certain insights that might be helpful in determining future campaign tactics, for example. And lastly, you can unlock additional features. So you can think about using customer acquisition goals and conversion value rules to be used in additional Google Ads tactics. So this works if you're going to be leveraging customer list data in a good way. So this is really helpful as well. So every business is unique and every business needs a tailored customer match setup. So I want to give you a couple of examples of how you can use customer match segments to, well, do all of the things that we just went over. So let's look at lead gen first party data segments first. So you can think about gated content downloaders, form abandoners, where people didn't really complete the form, but they left their email address or phone number. Maybe you have an offline event. Sometimes we do an offline event. And if you know who the event attendees were and who bought the ticket, then you obviously have an email address to send the ticket to. You can target those profiles through the Google Display Network, for example, if you're uploading them into a customer list and they gave you consent in order to do so. You can also think about segments like qualified leads or just customers. When you look at SaaS, software as a service, you can think about uploading free trial users, people that registered but they didn't complete their setup, so they haven't tried your SaaS tool yet. You can try to activate them. You can isolate frequent software users. Maybe those are your most valuable customers. So you can use that segment as a lookalike segment in your demand chain campaign. You've got lapsed customers that you might want to reactivate or users per tier level. Maybe you've got two different tiers, a regular tier and an enterprise tier. In that particular case, you might want to target enterprise users through your upper funnel campaign because you want to have more of those types of clients. So there are so many different ways about how you can create customer segments to reach specific goals. And these are very, very, very business specific. These are just a couple of examples. And what I find even more interesting is that you can also combine certain high interest segments. For example, you can combine users who have downloaded multiple white papers and attended an online webinar, but haven't signed up. So you can also combine segments in order to reach the perfect profile that you would like to convert, for example. By looking at e-commerce, we have some additional segments as well. You can think about first-party segments like wishlist creators, card abandonment behavior, past purchases, loyalty program members, lists to create cross or upsell opportunities. So maybe you have one particular product that is your best seller and you have a couple of cross-sell opportunities over there, maybe bundles or particular accessories that are a good fit of that particular product. you can isolate those product buyers and try to sell them relevant accessories or maybe even upsell them to a bundle so there are so many more ideas about how you can leverage first-party data it is basically it comes down to your imagination and then you have to think about okay how am i going to use my data set in order to create these segments and then you're going to think about okay now i've got this data set now i'm going to think about targeting them so what you want to do is to always try and automate your customer lists with google ads because i think manually uploading customer match data is suboptimal it is also inefficient and it is privacy sensitive if you're going to set up a direct integration that is sharing data first party data with google automatically when people gave consent, then you do not have to mess with Excel files or Google Sheet docs where a lot of customer data is getting saved in. You want to prevent that at all costs because if those contact information is getting hacked or people are getting access to that in a particular way, then you have a GDPR related privacy issue and you're risking a lot of fines. So try to automate this whenever as possible, because that way you can make things more efficient and you will make sure that it is privacy unsensitive. You can use tools like Zapier for this, Make. You can also use the Google Ads API if you've got some developers in-house to set this up. So there are a lot of different opportunities over there. Lastly, let's talk about AI expansion, which is the third pillar of the modern day targeting principle. So what does this mean? You want to move from restrictive targeting to AI guided exploration. You want to basically utilize Google AI to find converting customers in the most unexpected places. So you want to let it explore because oftentimes conversions happen at the most random placements across the web. And you're like, okay, I don't really understand how this placement was able to convert this particular click, but smart bidding and Google AI was able to find this particular customer, so yeah, I don't really care. You're trying to feed it with as much signals as possible, and then you want to let it explore through AI expansion. You want to value expansion opportunities over targeting restrictions. So you don't need to be afraid or you don't want to be afraid of AI expansion to go too broad, because I think in the long run, AI expansion will become better and better and better. And if you're, if you're basically getting stuck at a restrictive targeting, I think you're going to lose out in the big race of obtaining customers in the full Google ecosystem. so when we talk about ai expansion you can think about optimized targeting for example where you're using your customer lists and other targeting signals in order to find new customers you can also think about lookalike segments so over here you can see that i am trying to target and reach lookalikes based on my active subscribers of this particular sas tool so if you layer this with different signals like the custom segments and my first party data you will have like a really solid stacked signal list and if you combine this with ai expansion and smart bidding i think you're you're future-proofing yourself and i think if you do that in a high quality way targeting success is almost guaranteed if you obviously also think about the other parts of the Google ad success equation, but you can even make, even take things further. So Miles has done this particular campaign experiment, I think a year or two ago, where he essentially created two additional video action campaigns, where he just said, okay, I'm going to try to basically target every potential relevant customer on YouTube plus video partner sites. and I'm not going to be restrictive at all. So what he did over here, he did basically an open targeting test where he didn't target any custom segments. He didn't target any placements. He didn't target any topics. Basically, the targeting set was empty and as broad as humanly possible within what is possible within Google Ads. And he actually saw that one of these two campaign experiments actually outperformed his custom intent, fully build out optimized campaign experiment which is the bottom one so yeah this basically illustrates how good optimized targeting and google ads ai already is in finding the correct customer in the full google ecosystem depending on what campaign type you're you're running so this is obviously a really solid campaign experiment to run if you know what's what has been working and if you have the data to properly feed the algorithm so there are always nuances over here and ai exploration isn't meant for everyone but you have to take into consideration that you need a sizable audience and also sufficient enough conversion data for ai to utilize optimized targeting plus smart bidding if you don't have sufficient data and you haven't really used upper funnel campaigns that much in the past and you don't know if you're getting traction or not you might want to be a little bit more conservative i still think that you want to rely on first party data you want to rely on custom intent signals but you might want to wait with the ai expansion part that will give you a little bit more control over the targeting criteria and the context of within AI is going to target your potential customers. And if you do see that you're getting traction, in that case, you might want to start experimenting with dabbling in optimized targeting or maybe lookalike audience segments. So it isn't meant for everybody and there are always it depends situations, but I think the targeting game is heading towards this direction. And if you want to win at this game, you need to combine all of these three pillars of modern day targeting success. So let's recap. So here are the key takeaways for audience targeting. You want to replace audience targeting selection with signal guidance. Your first party data is your strongest targeting weapon in the race. Google AI learns from your high quality signals to find unexpected opportunities across the full Google ecosystem. Ideally, you want to combine all pillars. so signals over selection first party data and ai expansion if you don't really trust or have conviction in upper funnel campaign types yet because you haven't run them before you might want to leave out ai expansion at first and then later on start experimenting with them if possible you want to trust ai to find opportunities you would miss manually and i think to close this lesson with is that not adopting means falling behind, just like with the improved targeting game that we went over earlier.
