# Bids and Budgets: Prevent inefficient campaigns with proper bid and budget management

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** the-google-ads-success-formula
- **Section:** The Google Ads Success Formula
- **Duration:** 34:35
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

In this lesson, we're going to dive deeper into bids and budgets. And bids and budgets is the last part of the puzzle of the Google Ad Success Formula equation. So in this lesson, we will zoom into why bids and budgets are inseparable. You will also learn what drives your budgets. You will learn why bids are one of the biggest levers in Google Ads. And I will try to explain the differences between manual versus automated bidding and why I think automated bidding is far more superior compared to manual bidding. So let's take a look at the last part of the Google Ads Success Formula framework. You can see if bids and budgets is done incorrectly, that will lead to inefficient campaigns. So you can do everything correct from having an irresistible offer to having a really solid high converting landing page. But if your budget is wrongly allocated or you didn't set the appropriate bids, in that case, you're missing out on efficiency or you're missing out on growth because you're limiting your campaigns. So therefore, bids and budgets are really important. So you can see of your budget as being the fuel and your bids of being your steering wheel. Together, they determine where, how far and how fast you're going to go. So I think bids and budgets are really inseparable as well because limited budgets plus high bids equals limited reach, but premium positions. So in this case, you're just paying too much for ad positions basically because you're paying too much for your clicks. And if you cannot raise your budgets, you're missing out on conversion volume potentially. Same goes for the other way around. If you have really high budgets, but really low bids, that essentially mean that you have a very high reach potential, but very poor ad positioning. So that means that your budget is likely not getting spent. You're going to not hit your growth targets, for example. And in this case, you need to maybe adjust your bids in order to spend your daily budgets that you need in order to hit your growth goals. And if you do this right, and you have a solid balanced approach, you will have optimal reach and optimal ad positioning. so let's look at a case study where budgets were limited in the early stages and where i had to balance out budgets and bids so this is a case study that i made a year ago from recording this particular video in the beginning of 2024 and over here i restructured the full account i improved a lot of things i restructured the campaign structure made sure to rewrite the ads and make them more compelling. I introduced offline conversion tracking. I made sure to utilize automated bidding and leverage target CPA. The only problem was that the campaigns were getting so much traction after launching them that we hit our available budgets right away. So the first target CPA level where the client agreed upon, where they actually made a lot of money, was three euros so you can see in the week of 18 december it was a little bit above three euros but the week after we instantly dropped to three euros which was our target cpa the problem however was that we were losing out on a lot of impressions because of our limited daily budget if this particular metric search lost impression share due to a too low budget is higher than zero percent that means that you're missing out because of limited budgets. And this metric over here is far more trustworthy than the limited by budget annotation that Google gives you at the campaign status. So always make sure to keep an eye on this particular column. So what I did was in the week of January 8th, I reduced the target CPA from 3 euros to 2,25 euros. So that meant that the search loss impression share due to a limited budget dropped somewhat. I was hoping for it to drop a little bit more, but as you can see, it decreased CPCs in the weeks after making more room for clicks. And that translated into way more conversion volume, as you can see, for the same amount of weekly costs. So it's just a simple equation. If you can bring down your CPC within a limited budget situation, you essentially make room for more clicks. And if your conversion rate is staying the same or essentially improves, that will lead to more conversion volume. So that's how you scale within a limited budget setting. But that's obviously not the ideal situation to be in because we were hitting our efficiency targets. we were already below our discussed target cpa where the client actually made a lot of money so the client did his best to ask for more budget at their management level and in the week of 5 february he finally was granted more budget so we were able to increase the daily budgets so cost on a weekly level increased the search loss and passion share due to budget decreased because obviously we were able to win more available impressions and well that led to an explosion in weekly conversion volume while still sitting at a relatively low above target target cpa so this is how you can balance the two of them in order to make the most out of google ads in certain situations it's all about a dance between available budgets and the bits you set in order to maximize your reach, essentially. So what drives your budget? I think your growth targets should define your minimum budget needed. So what are your monthly conversion and revenue targets? What is your desired market share? Do you have new customer acquisition goals? Are there expansion plans to a different geographic region? For example, a different country. Do you have certain market dynamics or potentials That also determines certain skill opportunities where you need additional budget from. So based on these variables, you need to determine your budget that is needed to hit your goals. Essentially, you always want to stay away from arbitrary budgets because it's completely unnecessary. Since if you have specific growth related goals, you can always calculate the budget needed in order to hit your goals. So you want to start with the end in mind. For example, if we want to determine growth-based budgets from a CPA perspective and our growth goal equals 100 leads per month from Google Ads, then we can easily calculate the budget that is needed in order to hit those 100 leads per month from Google Ads. We just have a simple formula for this because it is required monthly budget equals target monthly conversions times target CPA. And if you know your average CPA, for example, it equals $50, then the minimum budget to achieve the target should be on a monthly basis. You need 100 conversions per month times it cost per conversion that equals $50 in CPA That equals to $5,000 in a minimum monthly budget needed in order to hit your monthly growth goal of 100 leads per month for a CPA of $50. If you translate it back to a daily budget that is needed to hit those goals, you can easily divide your $5,000 monthly budget by 30.5 days, and that will give you a daily minimum budget of $164. dollar so quite simple all you need is a growth goal and you need your average cpa but sometimes you don't have a cpa you want to calculate this from a row as perspective well that's doable as well let's say you have a 400k revenue target in q4 so across three different months from google ads key formula over here is required monthly budget equals target monthly revenue divided by target ROAS. Knowing your ROAS equals 350%, the minimum monthly budget to achieve the target should be on a quarterly basis, 400K in revenue divided by a 350% ROAS equals a 140K minimum budget in Q4. From that perspective, you can calculate it down to monthly and also on a daily basis by just dividing a quarter to three months and from a monthly perspective to daily basis divide that number by 30.5 days and that's giving you a daily budget of close to $1,250 per day in order to hit these revenue numbers in Q4 in one quarter based from a average ROAS of 350 percent relatively relatively simple right so you always want to validate your budgets so when validating your budgets you could you could look at the market potential versus the monthly growth targets for example is there enough search volume is there enough market potential or actual demand in order to hit my growth targets so you need to validate that i created a lesson about budget validation in the Bits and Budgets fundamental course, by the way. You have to check on the budget versus impression share opportunities. Is there room in terms of search impression share, just like the case I just showed you? You need to check on the competition level per market segment. For example, what will competitors do if I raise bits or budgets? What do you see in terms of historical CPA and ROAS trends during scaling phases? Do you have to bid more aggressively, for example, within a particular month, for example, Black Friday, in order to hit your targets? And what does this imply in terms of budgets? Is your conversion rate, for example, when you start scaling? So you need to validate if your budget is going to work out. But once again, if you want to dive deeper into that, I've made a separate video about budget validation. And you can find all of that in the fundamentals module so now we've got budgets we can talk about bits as well so your bits are arguably one of the biggest levers inside of google ads and your bit is also the biggest part of the ad rank calculation that we went over in the basics module as well over here you can see all of the elements within the ad rank formula and your bit is basically next to the quality of your ad the ad quality basically the most important lever of determining where your ad position is going to be and what you're going to be paying at the actual cpc level so it directly impacts all of your core metrics if you follow the first couple of lessons within the basics module this this visual might look familiar so your bids the max cpcs you're able to set will in fact determine and impact your ad rank your ad rank will determine the available auctions you're able to to enter and yeah basically determine the search impression share the ad rank will also determine the ad position and your ad position will determine the CTR the available impressions times the CTR at that point will determine the amount of clicks the amount of clicks will determine the amount of conversions and the amount of conversions will also determine the conversion value really simplified in this particular case because i went over this in detail in the key google ads metric lesson so it all starts with your bits so it's a really important metric so bits not only determine how much you pay but they essentially determine your entire campaign success. And you can decide to bid the old way, but there's also a new way, which is called the automated bidding. But let's start with the old way where we're essentially going to be manually bidding. So when you are doing manual bidding, you're essentially set max CPC bids a few times per month, depending on the volumes. If you're pushing high volumes, you might have a script or you might have a rule or you're setting bits on a daily basis or maybe even more frequently if you're doing low volumes and you're just having a couple of hundreds of clicks per month and you're running on a manual cpc in that case you might be setting bits every single two weeks in order to have sufficient data to to see what your new bits need to be you have to set one max cpc bit on the keyword level for all scenarios you need to set basic bit adjustments for all of your dimensions and variables, such as device, location, hour of day, gender, et cetera. You need to spend hours in your Google spreadsheets in order to analyze your bit adjustments in a correct manner. Your decisions will be based on aggregated data of your last 90 plus days, for example, in order to make solid decisions. You will react very slow to market changes and you're kind of limited by human analysis capacity and your skill set as well because well i can do these kinds of analysis but it requires a lot of time and i think ai and also tools like chat gpt etc can do it way faster than me as a human So if you've been around for Google ads long enough, you might still recognize these kinds of tables that we worked at years ago. So over here, you can see an old ad schedule and also bit adjustments per ad schedule, which was called day parting back then. So we had to set different bits per location, per time of day, day of the week in order to optimize our bits, so to say, based on real performance data. we also use scripts like these from from search engine land i made sure to include the the the image link over here or the the source over here i think the the script was from brain labs if i'm correct and this was basically used to do a 24 7 hour analysis across the full week in order to see where the cpa was the highest or where the conversion volume was the highest and we could also use this information to set appropriate bid adjustments so if you're a memer like me then i think this meme is very suitable over here if you don't meme then you can ignore this part of the presentation but there are still use cases for manual bidding although it is relatively old and relatively outdated so you can still use manual cpc bids for brand campaigns where i think manual CPCs generally outperform a target impression share bid strategy for example sometimes you do have to fall back on manual CPC in low volume accounts because smart bidding won't be able to to work in a efficient manner since you don't have proper conversion volume thresholds sometimes you might be launching new campaigns with no historical data or conversion data at account level in those cases a manual cpc strategy makes sense at all for example newly created standard shopping campaigns or highly controlled experiments where you really need manual cpc for a particular reason but like i said already there is a new and better way and that is automated bidding automated bidding has a lot of different benefits over smart bidding sorry manual bidding The first reason is auction time bidding. So smart bidding evaluates and sets the perfect bid for every single search auction in real time rather than adjusting bids periodically. For example, what you have to do when running manual bids. It is also adaptive, where instead of treating keywords in isolation, the algorithm learns from every single query across your entire account to make smarter bidding decisions. and it uses richer user analysis and richer user signals in order to set the perfect bid by looking at more than 18 different signals real time at the auction level. If you're running a manual CPC bid strategy you are unable to take into consideration all of those signals that smart bidding has access to and a lot of signals aren't even visible in the user interface of Google ads, but smart bidding has access to them at the below the engine hood, so to say, that isn't visible in the user interface. So let's zoom in. So auction time bidding, how does it work? It analyzes each auction individually. It adjusts bids in real time. It considers the full context of the user and the user's search, and it makes instant bidding decision decisions before we had automated bidding or smart bidding advertisers like us could only update bits a few times per day at most and that was really frequent already most of the times we had to wait for a couple of weeks within lower volume accounts to adjust bits based on the data we accumulated in the weeks prior to the bit changes and now billions of calculations happen every millisecond on the auction level to set the right optimal bid according to the targets of the particular advertiser. So if you're running a target CPA strategy, for example, you're after a $50 target CPA, then smart bidding is taking into consideration all of these variables to set the correct bid to maximize the number of conversions within your target CPA of $50. dollars and that's by itself is kind of mind-blowing that we've come so far that we can let AI handle all of those complex things talking about adaptive query level learning there are a couple of key benefits over here as well learning happens at the search query level data is being shared across your full account there's faster optimization for newer keywords because there is already historical data inside of your account and you will have better performances for low volume terms as smart bidding is also taking into consideration the data points from different queries. So when you add new keywords or move them between ad groups, smart bidding doesn't really have to start from scratch because they already know how these queries perform at the query level. So smart bidding has a lot of data that it can use in order to learn faster and set bits in a more optimal way in order to help you achieve your goals really fast then we also have rich signal analysis so like i said smart bidding is using more than 18 different signals at the query level where it is combining all of those signals together to set the most optimal bit it is looking at device and operating system location and time language and browser user list and behavior search intent and context and so much more that we cannot even comprehend there's so many more specific variables over here at play that smart bidding is taking into consideration that manual cpc just can't fathom or that you can't access as a google s specialist within the user interface so unlike manual bidding that looks at signals in isolation smart bidding analyzes how all of these signals work together to set the most ideal bit and this is essentially all of the variables that smart bidding is taking into consideration when setting the most optimal bit at the keyword level or at the placement level by taking into consideration the audience the time of day the day of the week the device performances but also operating system the location, device type. There's so many variables at play over here that you cannot just, you simply can't outwork smart bidding. There's no, no way. So I'm a huge fan of smart bidding, as you can tell already. So let's see it in action. So over here, I'm running a target CPA of 20 euros. And as you can see by the performance per device, you can see that smart bidding setting different cpcs per device different cpcs for the computer i think it's double the cpc of mobile phones because the conversion rate is just way higher so we're able to a bit more competitively on computers over here we have to bit less competitively on mobile phones by looking at the average because the average conversion rate for from mobile phones is relatively low but it still tries to maximize the conversions within our target cpa of 20 euros it's a little bit above over here same applies to tablets but below the line it's close to that 20 euro target cpa so this is all done automatically same applies to gender and age group segments for example so we see different conversion rates per gender so we see that for example males over here tend to convert a little bit better than females and therefore the cpc for male audiences is a little bit higher than female audiences same applies to ages so as you can see target cpa close to 20 euros bottom line and google tries to hit the target cpa of 20 euros on every single segment but once again cpcs are very very very different and that is because conversion rates are very different as well. So this is how smart bidding essentially works. Last example over here, day per week, different conversion rates per day of week. For example, on Saturdays, the conversion rate is the lowest, 3.66%. That means that CPCs on a Saturday are relatively low as well in comparison to, for example, Monday, where conversion rates are at the highest point. So this is all handled automatically same applies to hour of day same applies to country where you can adjust bits automatically while still accounting for your target cpa fully automated also on the unique search term level as you can see average cpa bottom line close to 20 euros but the cpcs per query is very very different and that is because conversion rates are once again very very different. So if we compare a traditional approach versus smart bidding, then in order to account for all of these bid adjustments, for example, the different performances per device, we previously had to set bid modifiers, so to say, bid adjustments per segment, per device, in order to account for the different conversion rates in order to set different CPCs to hit our efficiency target whether that's a specific target CPA or target ROAS. So that meant that for example you had to set a minus 20% bit adjustment for mobile phones or a plus 15% bit adjustment for every single morning because the conversion rate might be higher during morning mornings versus evening hours same applies for specific locations but right now smart bidding can do all of that 24 7 fully automated for you so smart bidding recognizes that mobile mobile devices in the morning plus a location near your specific store has a much higher conversion rate and it bids more aggressively for that particular auction it adjusts bits based on all of the complete context signals that it has on the specific query level so it also takes into consideration the audience it takes into consideration the operating system of the user it takes into consideration the the time of day and so many more signals it does it automatically so like i said already you don't want to forget about other signals that we simply cannot access in the ui as well there's simply so many more signals that we won't be able to analyze at all because google isn't giving them to us but smart bidding is able to leverage them in order to set the optimal bid on the query level so smart bidding processes more data in one day more than more data in one day than a human could analyze in a full year and this leads to better performance and saves you hours and hours of work so over here you can see one of my clients accounts where they are having more than 60k unique keywords across 50 different accounts and basically by utilizing smart bidding target cpa in this particular instance all of those keyword level bits are apart from the manual cpc bits which are branded keywords over here handled automatically 24 7 by google ads and basically it's mostly hands off it's checking on every single every single variable now and then checking non-converting n-grams checking inefficient n-grams to see if smart bidding is forgetting about certain certain certain search terms in terms of suboptimal bids but it's mostly hands off you can just let the algorithm optimized for your target CPA your target ROAS and that is so incredibly it's going to save you so incredibly much time and it makes it so much easier for you to manage different parts of the of the bigger puzzle so yeah it's amazing what smart bidding can do for you so smart bidding performs best when it can see the complete picture you once again have to think about this as a puzzle the more pieces it has to put together the more difficult it is to complete the puzzle but the fewer pieces it has to put together the easier it is to complete the puzzle and over here you can see what i mean by this by comparing very complicated accounts to simplified accounts obviously the bottom half puzzle is way easier to complete than the upper puzzle because we simply have fewer pieces so let's talk about choosing the right bid strategy for your situation it's relatively simple so you have to start with your goal essentially you have to look at your business goal first and then you have to translate that to an appropriate bid strategy so if you're looking for conversions transactions or leads you're going to use maximize conversions or a target cpa If you're looking to maximize conversion value, for example, you want to maximize revenue, profit, or LTV, then the maximize conversion value or target ROAS strategy might be a better fit. If you're looking to generate as many clicks as possible within a maximum CPC threshold, for example, then maximize clicks is very logical. if you are looking for impressions and you're looking for awareness or visibility then a target impression share might be a logical bid strategy so this is a really simple framework or overview about when to pick the correct bid strategy based on your business goal so we will zoom in on every single automated bid strategy in the fundamentals module way deeper than this but this is going to give you some some introductions to that so one more thing about conversion volume thresholds because google is kind of fake in telling us how many conversions we need per month per campaign in order to fully capitalize on their automated bid strategies so this is what they say machine learning algorithms rely on robust conversion data to build accurate bidding algorithms that predict performance at different bit levels so they aren't quantifying a lot over here they're just telling us that they need a robust conversion data foundation in order to build accurate bidding algorithms that predict performance at different bit levels so they aren't telling us how many conversions we need in order to properly feed automated bidding but i still think that we need to hit certain thresholds in order to maximize the smart bidding potential and also have consistent results. So what I think and what my opinion is, is that you still need to aim for at least 50 conversions per month per conversion-focused bid strategy, even if Google Ads doesn't explicitly stated within their documentations, for example, because while smart bidding can work with fewer conversions on a campaign level than 50 conversions per month per campaign, you might experience less consistent performance, more volatile results, and longer learning periods due to limited ability to predict outcomes. So what I would recommend you to do is to aim for more than 50 conversions per month. If you cannot hit these 50 conversions per month per campaign, you can still try to make it work with, for example, 20 to 30 conversions per month per campaign. Or you can try experimenting with a portfolio bid strategy and combining multiple campaigns together to also combine conversion data. That could still work, but it generally leads to more inconsistencies and more fluctuations so therefore our recommendation is to start to aim for more than 50 conversions per month per campaign generally speaking you will you will feed the algorithm the algorithm with with enough data this way so if you don't have enough conversions in an individual campaign for example to meet these recommended minimal monthly conversion volumes per month then you could consider using portfolio bid strategies to pull together conversion data, because by combining campaigns together into one portfolio bid strategy, you can essentially combine conversion data as well. And that could help smart bidding to set better bids. And that could lead to less fluctuations. You could also consolidate campaigns that have the same objective and have the same targets where you don't want to allocate different budgets for and that you don't have to use other you could also optimize your conversion tracking setup so if you lack conversion data and there's a way to enhance and improve your conversion tracking setup you can also improve your conversion volumes or you could also consider switching for from primary conversion actions to from macro to micro conversion actions to increase conversion volume. For example, if you are lacking purchases on a monthly basis, but you do have a lot of add-to cards, then you could consider switching to an add-to card as a primary conversion action in order to boost conversion data. So smart bidding gets smarter with more conversion data, and that's what you need to remember. So lastly, I want to give you these prerequisites for smart bidding success. First of all, you need to have an optimized conversion tracking setup with clear conversion goals. You want to have sufficient conversion volume for feeding the algorithm. If you don't have sufficient conversion volume, go back to the slide I just went over because there are other ways to handle that. You want to have clear goals that can be mapped with appropriate bid strategies. and obviously when using a automated bid strategy like a target CPA or a target ROAS strategy then you definitely want to know your break-even CPA and ROAS points so you know where your break-even point is and obviously you want to set realistic CPA and ROAS targets as well in order to bid competitively, get traction and how you do that we will get into that in the fundamentals course as well. don't worry we will we will get technical but this is essentially all you need to do in order to have smart bidding success so that's it this is the last lesson of the google ads success formula framework or the why google ads campaigns fail framework depending on how you look at things if you do all of this right including bits and budgets you will be setting up for success
