# Campaign structure: Why your campaigns wont succeed with fragmented campaigns

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** the-google-ads-success-formula
- **Section:** The Google Ads Success Formula
- **Duration:** 17:10
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

In this lesson, I want to zoom in on why having a solid campaign structure is so important for campaign success. In this lesson, you will learn why campaign consolidation is so effective. You will learn about our golden rule when it comes down to campaign structure. And I will give you a couple of reasons to segment out your campaigns. So when we look at the overarching framework, you can see that without having a solid campaign structure, your campaigns will become fragmented. And this is in fact one of the bigger mistakes that I come across in Google Ads accounts, where people have created a lot of different Google Ads campaigns with a lot of underlying ad groups, and that is basically going to hurt performance. So when campaigns are fragmented, performance suffers due to insufficient campaign level conversion data. Smart bidding has few or fewer data points to learn and therefore becomes inconsistent. Management becomes more complex and overwhelming and analysis gets confusing and also time consuming as your data is spread out over your complete account. The solution for this is consolidation. So let's look into a situation where data is fragmented and data is consolidated. So in the first situation where data is fragmented, data is spread too thin over your full account into several unneeded campaigns, into multiple underlying ad groups that aren't needed. And in this case, AI struggles to learn because data is spread too thin and AI is struggling to find patterns into the data. It also leads to excessive management because you need to optimize and manage multiple unneeded campaigns ad groups underlying ads etc and that will cost you a lot of time instead of when you were to consolidate your campaigns and data it does lead to a higher level of control because the more you segment out your campaigns the more you segment out your ad groups the more you can control what kind of ads what kind of campaigns what kind of keywords are are getting the budget which ads are getting triggered but it does lead to a lot of excessive management and a different con is that it also leads to a higher margin for error because obviously the more campaigns and the more ad groups and underlying ads and keywords you have the more it leads to potential errors like a keyword cannibalization between different keywords across multiple campaigns maybe ads that you forgot to adjust that will lead to lead to certain errors on the other hand we have data consolidation where you're basically consolidating your data into a less amount of campaigns and less amount of ad groups and that will essentially lead to more consolidated conversion data so in this case smart bidding slash google ai is able to learn way faster because it can easily find patterns across your account. It is also easier to manage because in this case, you have a limited amount of campaigns, unaligned ad groups that you need to adjust, that you need to monitor, that you need to optimize. So instead of 100 different ads, for example, you may only need 10 different ads in a consolidated data situation. When consolidating data, it does lead to a lower level of control because you're heavily relying on google ai smart bidding on automation over here so you need to feel comfortable um relying on google ai because you will give away a lot of control over here but the other side of things is that you will have a lower margin for error because for you as a google s specialist it's way easier to to quickly identify negative patterns you can you don't forget about adjusting certain ads inside of your full account because you have a limited amount of ads. It's easier to allocate budgets and stuff like that. So there's a lower margin for error. So before I explain why data consolidation works so well, let's look at some results after data and campaign consolidation. So this is a recent case that I basically did for one of my clients where this particular client came in he had the feeling like okay I think I'm doing well but I haven't really optimized my campaigns for more than 1.5 years because my Google Ads in-house specialist basically got a new job and I've been doing it myself and for what I'm seeing on LinkedIn and different news sources the Google Ads world is changing rapidly so I think my campaign setup is quite outdated so i did an audit on the account and i in fact saw that it was quite a mess in terms of campaign structure underlying ad groups that were created on a per match type stuff like that so after performing the audit i got i got the gig i started working and i consolidated 19 campaigns into just four campaigns and it consolidated 89 ad groups into just 21 ad groups and consolidating a lot of campaigns a lot of data and that resulted in amazing results so next to campaign consolidation and ad group consolidation i obviously also did some other improvements like switching from a regular google ads conversion tracking pixel to enhanced offline conversion tracking imports i made sure to leverage smart bidding to the max And that resulted into a 253% increase in conversions year on year. So not month on month, all non-branded, by the way. It resulted in a minus 60% average CPA reduction year on year and an increase of 456% in conversion rate, which is a crazy amount. Just by leveraging the latest Google Ads best practices in terms of tactics, where data consolidation was one piece of the puzzle over here. So this is what you essentially want. So over here, we can see an old campaign structure of a different client where even campaigns were segmented on, on the device, this is like a tactic of years ago, but they were still running this particular tactic and I made sure to remove all of this trash, so to say, and consolidated their campaigns into the just two search campaigns one branded and one generic non-brand campaign and that resulted in a big uplift in conversions and results as well while basically making management way easier because i was leveraging google ai to the max over here and as you can see if you go from 20 plus campaigns to just two you will have less margin for error obviously also a lower lower lower control because you're giving away control to to automation and google ai but if results are going to be improved then that's a really solid thing to do in my opinion so this is in fact what you want consolidation within the campaign and also consolidation on deeper levels like the ad group level that we will dive into later as well so why is consolidation so effective it leads to faster learning where machine learning based solutions like responsive search ads, but also smart bidding can learn way faster. It leads to better performance because faster learning results in better performances. It is easier for you, but also smart bidding to spot trends and patterns and therefore management becomes simpler and more effective. Like I said already, management becomes more effective because it's easier to navigate, understand and manage your account. So you can only imagine if we go back to the previous example where you saw all of these different device type segmented out campaigns it's a pain in the ass to to manage them to make sure that your budgets are allocated effectively if you're going to do some ad copy testing you need to adjust the same ad copy for for three different devices in three different campaigns since it's segmented instead of just changing the ad copy in one campaign where you're going to leverage AI to adjust bits on the device level. So management becomes so, so, so much easier when you're going to consolidate data. Less margin for error. Simple structures minimize the chances of mistakes. Budget allocation will be improved because you are going to easily reallocate or allocate budgets across multiple campaigns you're going to harmonize with ai and i think data consolidation really aligns with how machine learning based products like responsive search ads or broad keywords are designed to function best with with data consolidation and lastly cost efficiency it also leads to lead to lower management fees and therefore resulting in higher rois for your stakeholders, depending how you look at this. So I still try to sell as much as management as possible, obviously, because we're here to make money for ourselves as a Google Ads specialist. But instead of just focusing on Google Ads alone, you can now focus on different areas as well. So instead of using your time to just manage this complex setup where your data is fragmented across multiple campaigns multiple ad groups you can now allocate your time to for example landing page creation or way more refined ad copy testing or deeper a deeper understanding of the customer journey so you can try to try to make your campaigns more cohesive with how your customers are actually searching so in that way you can amplify your impact as a google ad specialist, instead of juggling this complex setup that you've created for yourself and for your client. So I think this is a very, very good thing. So we're able to consolidate because of Google AI and Google AI enables simplified structures because it trains on data in your full account. Smart bidding learns and places bids on the auction and the query level. Smart bidding uses signals from all of your campaigns to set the optimal bid, especially if you leverage portfolio bid strategy as well. We will dive deeper into that in the bids and budgets module later on. Leveraging broad match results in less ad groups and less extensive keyword lists. If you want to harness AI to the max, leveraging dynamic creatives means endless combinations within a simpler hierarchy so no need to create a complex setup because if you're using responsive search ads and dynamic dynamic text ads for your dynamic ad groups in that case you can you can create endless amounts of combinations with different ad customizers as well that tailor to the unique search query of the potential customer and in the age of ai i always say that less is often more it leads to more ease more efficiency and better results so when it comes to consolidation we have one simple to understand golden rule so our golden rule is to always consolidate as much traffic as possible and you only want to segment when there is a good reason to do so the starting point is always campaign consolidation and data aggregation and from there on you can think about solid reasons from for segmentations so you only want to segment your campaign if you need different bid strategies or targets for varying business objectives or if you want to allocate specific budgets to specific services or products so let's say you are a online marketing agency and you're selling seo and seo services if you want to allocate more budget to seo instead of seo that That means that you will have to create two campaigns. So you can allocate different budgets to SCA versus SEO. Maybe you want to bid more aggressively for your SCA services because your customer lifetime value is higher and maybe that service is more competitive to advertise for. In that case, you might want to also segment out into a different campaign so you can adjust your target accordingly and target the bids accordingly. A different reason to segment your campaign is if you want to apply different conversion actions for individual campaign goals, so let's say you want to, you are a lead gen advertiser where you have two different primary conversion actions, one is a form fill out and one is a resource download, maybe you want to segment your campaign for specific ebook or resource related keywords in the think phase and you want to optimize for ebook downloads instead of form fill-ins so in that case you could segment your campaign adjust your campaign specific goal so you can instruct smart bidding to optimize for a different conversion action you can also segment your campaign if specific campaign settings such as location targeting are needed for certain segments you might want to you might sell different services within different regions well in that case you need different location targeting and you can only set that on the campaign setting level maybe you have unique business insights that google doesn't know and therefore by segmenting your campaign you can increase performance you can segment your campaign if detailed reporting and insights are necessary for particular segments and your stakeholders are asking for that this is a rare case but sometimes this is needed in order for for reporting and insights you may also want to isolate certain experiments without affecting your core setup in this case you can segment out a small portion of your campaign where you can start experimenting with and this can be 100 different reasons i'm not giving you a particular reason but sometimes you might want to isolate experiments in a different campaign as well. Or if you have the resources and expertise required to manage complex structures. So this is a really important one. Generally speaking, you need more time, more skills in order to manage a more complex Google Ads account setup. So only segment out your campaigns if you require more control and you know what you're doing. So in that case you might want to in fact also segment because you think you can outwork the google ai related products if advanced segmentation tactics are needed to maximize performance so this is generally speaking a tactic within product listing ads so if you're running shopping ads you might want to segment your campaigns into multiple multiple buckets also called performance based segmentation for example and then that's in that case you can increase the performance of your product listing ads this is also a valid reason to segment out your campaigns so even though you might have a valid reason to segment your campaigns you always want to have sufficient conversion data to support effective decision making for yourself but also to feed smart bidding in an optimal way and we always recommend you to aim for close to 50 conversions or more per month per campaign to ensure smart bidding has enough data points to properly optimize for conversions within your efficiency targets. Fewer monthly conversions can work so if you're struggling hitting 50 conversions per month then you don't have to worry per se because it can also work with 20 to 30 conversions per month but if you're going to the lower end like 20 to 30 conversions per month or even less it will often come with inconsistencies so therefore we recommend you to try to optimize for at least 50 conversions per campaign per month or more to feed smart bidding with as much as conversion data as possible and that will lead to more consistency within your campaign, within your account, and where you also have more data to optimize for. So remember, when in doubt, consolidate. You can always segment if data proves it's needed.
