# Goals and KPIs: Why flying blind guarantees campaign failure

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** the-google-ads-success-formula
- **Section:** The Google Ads Success Formula
- **Duration:** 32:01
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

In this lesson, we're going to zoom in on setting realistic goals and picking the right KPIs for the job. You will learn why setting goals upfront is so crucial. You will learn the consequences of setting unclear goals or no goals at all. And you will learn obviously how to set clear goals and choose the right KPIs. So let's dive in. So let's fall back on the overarching framework for a bit so you know why setting goals and picking the right KPIs is so important. So you can do everything by the book by having a irresistible offer a high converting landing page all the way to setting optimal bids and allocating budgets in the most efficient way but if you do not have proper goals and you haven't set any targets and you don't know what kind of kpis to look at you're essentially aimless and that's the key word over here without goals and key kpis you're essentially aimless you don't know what to do you don't know if your campaign performances are either good or bad and yeah you don't know where to optimize etc so we're going to dive deeper into why setting goals and kpis is so important and during the lesson i'm also going to tell you how you're going to set clear goals and what kpis are relevant for the job so let's start with this particular quote before we dive in so a goal properly set is already halfway reached it's a quote by Zig Zegler. And I think this is really true. If you set clear goals and you know where you're working towards, then you can already start, well, creating your campaigns in a particular way that works toward that particular goal. Whether that is a growth related goal or a officially related goal, a goal properly set is already halfway reached. So why is setting goals upfront so crucial. So let's go through five core points. Number one, it enables data-driven decision. By setting clear goals and targets, you can make informed decisions and can optimize your campaigns for maximum impact. Number two, it helps to actually measure success because by defining your goals and targets upfront, you can easily measure the campaign's effectiveness and you can see if you're on track or not. And if not, where you need to zoom into and what adjustments you need to make in order to well get your campaign performances on track number three it enables testing and optimization by having clear goals and targets you can essentially optimize your campaigns based on actual performance data versus your growth and efficiency related goals because if you don't know where you're working towards whether you're working towards a specific growth related goal or efficiency related goal you don't know where the heck to turn on the knobs you don't know what campaign to enable, what campaign to pause, what keywords to pause, which keywords to add, which bits to increase, etc. It leads to all sorts of problems if you do not set clear goals with your stakeholders. Number four, a really important one, it facilitates communication with your stakeholders. I've had many instances in the past when I just started out and I worked for agencies where I had to work on accounts where nor me nor the client knew where we were working towards. So during the monthly meetings where we had to discuss the results, I had really cringe worthy, worthy communications with these stakeholders because, well, I didn't know if we were on track. The only metrics that I was able to look at were like affinity metrics, like CTR and clicks. I didn't know if my Google ads campaigns drove the results that the client was looking for and sometimes the client didn't know either so sometimes those kinds of situations are well you want to prevent those let's let's keep it that way number five it saves you valuable ad spend without clear goals and targets you run the risk of spending money on ads that aren't effective wasting valuable dollars if you don't know what kind of efficiency you're working towards and you have a very inefficient running campaign or product ad or text ad or keyword, whatever the case, well, if you don't know what you're working towards, you cannot really pause or pause that particular dimension or you cannot really make a certain optimization to make your campaigns more efficient. So it's really important to set goals and pick the right KPIs. And lastly, before we continue is it provides focus. A clear set of goals and targets provides focus as you can easily identify leaks making your optimizations effective and impactful so while the benefits of clear goals are substantial the risk of not having them are equally significant but i think even more significant but in the wrong way so let's go through the consequences of setting no goals or having unclear goals first reason or first con is a strategic misalignment with business objectives. If you don't have goals, you don't know where to optimize towards, you don't know where to work towards, and that will result in, well, misalignment and a lot of wasted ad spend. You will also have difficulty in measuring success due to a lack of measurable success indicators. If you don't know your KPIs that you need to look at, if you don't know your targets, well, it sounds obvious, but if you don't have them, you're in a top spot. Optimizing your campaigns are in fact impossible. The only thing that you can optimize for is relevancy but apart from that you can do nothing. Embarrassing I have no idea how we're doing conversations with stakeholders like I've already mentioned. I've had these ones in the past when I just started out and I want to prevent those at all costs especially if I work for my own clients. So right now, I always set really crystal clear goals with proper targets and proper KPIs to look at so we can see every single month during face-to-face meetings, whether that's in person or official, online I mean, if we're on track or not and where we need to adjust. Number four, challenges in justifying ad spend to stakeholders without measurable outcomes. Well, if you're spending 10K per month and you don't know how you're doing, well, how are you going to justify that ad spend? And how are you going to ask for more if you're looking for ways to expand? Increased budget wastage due to unfocused spending. Well, this is a big one as well, because if you don't know where you're optimizing for, you're 100% going to allocate your budgets and spend towards inefficient keywords, products, campaigns, et cetera. So that's a big problem as well. And lastly, inability to optimize campaigns due to undefined success metrics. That's a tough one as well to be in. So how do we set clear goals? So we have to start with the business goals first, and your business goals should be specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and also time-bound. Also known as smart. Not only your business goals need to be smart, but your Google ads goals that are translated from your business goals should also be smart. Then you want to identify the right target KPIs. So you want to identify the KPIs that will help you measure progress towards those business goals. And then you want to make the translation from your business goal to your Google Ads goal. And you want to make sure that your Google Ads goal are aligned with your overarching business goal that you're working towards from multiple channels and multiple advertising platforms. Because Google Ads isn't going to be the only platform you're going to be using in most of the cases. So you need to see how Google Ads is going to contribute to reaching that overarching business goal, so to say. So let's zoom in on every single step and let's start with start with your business goals so google ads is a tool for achieving specific business outcomes such as achieving specific growth and or specific efficiency goals every google ads campaign should start with a clear understanding of the company's strategic business objectives what do you want to achieve and business goals when defined need to be translated it to google ads goals and targets where google ads is just a piece of the puzzle so let's go through this quote real quick a lack of clear goals is like sailing a ship without a compass you might move but you will have no control over your destination and that's a very fitting quote in my opinion because this unfortunately happens a lot in our in our industry where people are running campaigns and they do not have any idea what they are doing and where they're working towards they're clocking their hours every single month they're working on their google ads campaigns but what are they trying to achieve what are they optimizing towards are they looking for growth are they looking for a specific efficiency target and i think every single google ads account needs to have certain google ads goals in place otherwise you are aimless so like i said your business goals should be smart and I want to go through the power of having smart goals because well making your goal smart makes makes it that you can essentially follow up on that goal otherwise it will be fake it will be unclear so make sure that your goals are always smartly formulated so an example of a smart goal could be we want to increase online purchases by 20 25 percent in q4 with a ROAS of at least 400%. So as you can see, this goal is SMART because it's specific. It is focused on online purchases. It's not focusing on sales or contact form fill outs. It has been made specific to online purchases. It is measurable, the M within SMART. It quantifies the target, which is a 25% increase of online purchases. It is achievable because it considers past performance and budgets. So you should always validate if your smart goal is achievable. It is relevant because it aligns with broader business growth objectives. So you need to always translate from your business goal to your Google Ads goal to see if you can make it relevant. and lastly it is also time bound because the goal has been set within q4 so this makes a goal smart so always make sure to check every single box from specific to time bound so you can make sure that your goal is clear and also achievable relevant time bound etc so business goals can be broadly categorized into two different types and i find it very helpful to basically categorize every single google ads goal and also business goal within those two goal types so to say you have you've got either growth and you've got efficiency so let's go through growth and efficiency goals real quick so you know what the differences are and why it's so important to know about these differences so on the left hand side you see all of the aspects from object objective all the way to the outcome and you see the growth goals and the efficiency goals so let's go through them one by one and let's start with growth goals so the objective of growth goals are mainly to grow and scale the business by expanding the reach the focus is most of the time on increasing market share the customer base or entering new markets characteristics of growth goals are often that you need a higher initial investment or a higher investment per se it often leads to a lower efficiency your cpas will increase your ROAS will will decrease because you need to invest you need to bid more aggressively in order to hit your growth related goals your resources will be allocated towards expansion and also testing because you need to be more aggressive in order to hit your growth goals and the outcome will be hopefully long-term growth and market dominance. If your goals are efficiency focused, then the objective of your goal is mainly to optimize the return on investment of the business and also the in-platform metrics, for example. The focus will be on improving cost effectiveness and ROI of current campaigns. You will focus on reducing waste. Ideally, you will see your CPA decrease and your ROAS increase, making your campaigns more efficient. So increasing efficiency. Your resources will be allocated towards refining the current campaign setup and also optimizing for efficiency. So you will focus on things like search query mining, exclusion, bids and budget reallocation towards the more efficient campaigns ad groups keywords etc whereas the growth related goal is mainly focused like okay we need to increase the keyword the keyword coverage we need to increase spend we need to bid more aggressively so it's the other way around essentially and lastly the outcome of efficiency goals will be immediate improvement in profitability and also efficiency so let's go through a couple of examples of growth related smart business goals and also efficiency related smart goals. So let's go through three different growth growth related goals. The first one is increase sales revenue by 20% in the next six months, increase new customer transactions by 10% next quarter and generate 100 closed deals per month. Whereas efficiency focused goals are well focused on efficiency. So let's go through a couple of examples. The first one is to reduce customer acquisition costs, also known as the CAC, by 10% next quarter. Hit a blended ROAS, also known as MER, media efficiency rate, of at least 5% or 500% in the next six months. And number three, keep customer acquisition costs, also known as CAC, below $200 this year. So you can see that the first three goals are focused on growth, expansion, revenue, whereas the bottom three goals are efficiency related, where you want to focus on efficiency. So there's a big difference between the two. So here's an important note that I want to make. I think a balanced Google Ads strategy should incorporate both growth and efficiency goals, but you can never, never, never maximize them simultaneously. because growth and efficiency goals often clash. For example, scaling up usually means that you will have to ramp up bids and bid more aggressively. And that obviously impacts efficiency metrics, such as a lower ROAS and a higher CPA. And well, you cannot have both. It's generally a dance between the two. You can obviously set boundaries and set goals for the two of them and try to increase, for example, growth a little bit more while limiting a decrease in efficiency but you can never maximize growth and maximize efficiency that just doesn't go hand in hand they often clash so you need to be aware of that but that doesn't mean that you can completely ignore efficiency goals if you are going to be focusing on growth goals because you do need to set boundaries for your for your both growth goals and efficiency goals and we will dive deeper into that into the goals and kpis module within the within the success path course so let's continue to identifying the right kpis so kpis essentially measure the effectiveness of your google ads campaigns in real time allowing for strategic adjustments from your campaigns they enable you to track progress optimize spend match success against your predefined business goals so it's really important to know that not everything that can be counted counts and not everything that counts can be counted a lot of that second part can in fact be true so if you want to count everything as a conversion inside of google ads that could in fact be the case but not everything that can be counted counts so be aware of that and be aware how this affects kpis so let's look at a couple of examples of kpis for growth related goals and also efficiency related goals let's start with growth so if you want to grow impressions clicks conversions revenue and impression shares are obviously very very important because in order to grow you need to reach more people so therefore your ads need more impressions your click volume needs to go up in order to grow you need to well boost your conversions oftentimes conversion volume isn't enough you need to drive actual revenue and you might be also optimizing for a higher impression share that essentially means that you're getting a higher cut of the total available impression share inside of the market and therefore you can grow your market share within the search engine result page basically so those are all growth related kpis if you want to grow these are your kpis that you want to focus on but on the other hand if you are focusing on efficiency your focus will move towards okay what does my click cost what are my costs what are what is my cost per action what is my return on ad spend and what is my media efficiency ratio my mer my blended row as so these are efficiency related metrics that are very very very important if you are focused on the efficiency part and the efficiency goal is a heavy weight in the equation next to your growth related goal. So as you can see KPIs are very very much different but like I said already if you are a growth minded that doesn't mean that you can ditch efficiency related goals and that you can completely ditch efficiency related KPIs, because you still need to have them as guardrails, that's what I like to call them, to prevent overspending, to prevent, for example, growing so aggressively that you're going to hurt your profitability and you're going to hurt your blended ROAS, for example, that eventually will hurt your business. And on the other hand as well, if you're focusing on efficiency and a maximum target CPA or a minimum break even row as is very very important for you that you need to hit in order to be efficient then you can also overdo that in a way that it can hurt your conversion volumes so you always need to have a mix between between the two meaning you have one primary objective and one or more primary kpis that are leaning towards your primary goal whether that is growth oriented or efficiency related. And then you have your guardrails that basically take care of your minimum conversion volume or minimum efficiency in order to prevent overspending, losing profits, et cetera, et cetera. Very important. You want to always stay away from vanity metrics. They may sound nice, but you can't put vanity metrics in the bank. They might look impressive on the surface, but they don't actually provide any valuable insights or any, any meaningful results. They're often used to make a campaign appear more successful than it actually is. And they can be heavily misleading to advertisers who rely on them to make decisions. So one of, one of an example that I, I've had previously, when it just started out, a lot of my accounts and a lot of my clients didn't have clear goals because well when starting out the customer wasn't asked okay what are you trying to achieve how can we translate this to google ads goals what are the kpis that we need to look at and we need to adjust for well if you don't have them in place you're going to be looking to you're going to look for vanity metrics something that you can use in order to tell your stakeholders that your campaigns are hopefully performing well and a vanity metric like that could be the click-through rate a CTR so if the clicks do not result in meaningful actions such as purchases or filled in quotation forms then a high CTR doesn't contribute to the business object objective it simply measures a ratio between the clicks and the impressions And it's not looking at the effectiveness of your clicks at all. So yeah, this is one of those very famous vanity metrics that I rarely look at. I only look at the CTR for, for ad copy optimization, more about that later on in the, in the, in the module. But apart from that metrics like these are just, just don't look at, just don't look too much at them. Don't focus on them. Look at key KPIs that actually matter to your business and that matter to your, to your growth or officially related goal, because metrics like these, well, you can put them into the bank. Number three, you want to translate to realistic Google ads goals. So if you know your business goal, you know what your stakeholder is trying to hit and trying to optimize for, and you know what kind of KPIs are going to be important, then you can translate all of that to realistic Google ads goals. So your Google Ads goals need to contribute towards the overarching business goals. And Google Ads is just one part of the complete puzzle of a multi-channel strategy designed to achieve the larger overarching goal. So while business goals are generally broad and strategic, Google Ads goals should be more tactical and also be more specific, focusing on actions that can be taken within the platform itself. So you have to understand that Google ads should work in harmony with other channels as well, such as email marketing, social media, offline campaigns to holistically achieve the set business goals. And this is where it often goes wrong as well, where people are going to heavily rely on Google ads goals and they're completely forgetting about the other channels into the complete marketing mix as well. Google Ads is a piece of the puzzle and it needs to contribute to the overarching goal and it needs to be realistic. And obviously you want to look to stretch results from Google Ads as much as possible, but you need to be realistic and you also need to know, okay, apart from Google Ads, we have SEO, we have email marketing, we have social ads, we have affiliate marketing, we have offline marketing or offline advertising and that will all contribute to achieving that goal. So it's not your only, only answer. So let's go through a couple of goal translations from business goal to Google ads goal. So you better understand the concept over here. So your business growth goal could be increased sales revenue by 20% in the next six months. If you try to translate that to a Google ads goal, it could be increased conversion value, which is your in-platform KPI, essentially, by 20% in the next six months by increasing our number of conversions and average order value, also known as AOV. So over here, you made the translation where you want to increase the revenue slash conversion value by as much as the percentage mentioned in the business growth goal. And over here, you're looking at some relevant kpis like conversion volume conversion value average order value and all of those will essentially attribute to hitting this particular google ads goal and hitting that google ads goal will hopefully also contribute to hitting your overarching business growth goal but sometimes other platforms might completely lack in well in this particular growth so you might you might have set a similar goal for social ads where you want to increase revenue by 20% as well, but maybe social ads is only increasing revenue by 15%, meaning you won't be able to hit your overarching business goal. In that case, you can still look at possibilities within other platforms like Google Ads. If you can stretch those out a bit, for example, increase conversion value by 25% instead of 20 to make up for other channels as well so it's always a dance between all of your other channels and activities as well you never want to be too focused on one particular platform or one particular channel because that might actually hurt your overarching performance next up increase new customer transactions by 10 in the next quarter a translation to a google ads goal could be increased the number of new customer acquisitions by 10% through my standard shopping campaigns, focusing on attracting caller traffic. Well, example of relevant KPIs could be the new versus returning customer ratio, the number of clicks, the number of conversions, et cetera, et cetera. So you can translate your business goal like this to a Google ads goal, picking the right KPIs as well. Next example, which is also a business growth goal, Generate 100 closed deals per month, overarching once again. A translation to Google Ads could be generate 150 leads that convert into 75 closed deals per month, taking into consideration that the average lead to sale rate is 50% through bottom-up funnel campaign types like our non-branded Google search campaigns. So this could be a translation from your targeting, which is your overarching target of generating 100 closed deals per month to a Google Ads goal of 75 closed deals per month through your Google search campaigns. Examples of relevant KPIs could be leads, lead to sale rates, and also closed deals. You can track if they are in tandem, if they're on target. if not you know what to address and where to optimize for. So let's look at some efficiency related goals. Your overarching business efficiency goal might be to reduce the customer acquisition cost also known as the CAC by 10% in next quarter. If you were to translate this to Google Ads it would be to decreasing the cost per conversion the CPA by 10% through decreasing cost on generic higher volume queries and increasing overall conversion rate so over here you've translated the goal to google ads where you also made it a little bit more tactical where you addressed the optimization capabilities like decreasing cost on generic higher volume queries example of relevant kpis cost conversions aka closed deals if you're doing offline conversion tracking import conversion rate and cpa so this is the last one that i want to touch on another one hit a blended ROAS also known as MER media efficiency rate of at least 5x or 500 percent in the next six months so when translating that to google ads it could translate into something like achieve an average ROAS of at least 350 percent in the next six months but adjust accordingly in tandem with other channels to hit blended ROAS targets. So over here, you can be a little bit more aggressive because Google Ads is obviously a paid channel. So most of the time, your ROAS can be lower than your blended ROAS and more aggressive in that way. But you have to keep in check the efficiency of other channels as well to make sure that your overarching blended ROAS is still going to be hit. KPIs could be cost, conversion value, and also ROAS. I'm going to skip this one because I think the point has been made clear. So important note, you want to regularly review and adjust your Google Ads goals to ensure they remain aligned with your evolving business goals. A lot of times overarching business goals are going to be adjusted. Sometimes you set a business goal every quarter and they get adjusted every single month in order to keep track of all of the underlying channels. So that means that your Google Ads goals need to be translated and updated as well if your overarching business goal changes. It doesn't really, I don't really know and I cannot tell when your business goals of your particular stakeholder is going to get changed. But you need to stay into the loop and you need to ask for the business goals every now and then to make sure that your Google Ads goals are still aligned with where the company wants to go. and what goals they need to be hit. So that's really, really important. So lastly, let's go through a couple of key takeaways. You always want to start with a clear, measurable business goal. If your client doesn't have any, make sure to help them, make sure to guide them through, well, making realistic business goals, making them smart, adjusting them to all of the underlying channels, et cetera. You want to make sure to convert business goals into actionable google ads goals you want to integrate google ads with the broader multi-channel strategies so also take into account what the what the what organic is doing what social is doing what email is doing in terms of their share in hitting your overarching business goals and adjust accordingly define kpis that measure google ads campaign success use targeted strategies to meet specific KPIs and regularly monitor goals and KPIs and adjust strategies and tactics if needed and make sure to regularly review your overarching goals and also your Google Ads goals to ensure they remain aligned with the business goals. A lot of times this is where errors happen. If you don't communicate with your stakeholders this is going to be a problem. So these are all the key takeaways. a very very very important lesson if you ask me i've matured to create a goals and kpis deep dive module inside of the fundamentals course so if you want to learn more about this and want to learn more about setting realistic goals i would encourage you to also go through that after you have completed this particular lesson and this particular module
