# Unit economics: Why your unit economics make or break campaign success

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** the-google-ads-success-formula
- **Section:** The Google Ads Success Formula
- **Duration:** 39:47
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

In this lesson, I'm going to zoom in on unit economics and why they make or break campaign success. In this lesson, you will learn why they are so important, and I will give you a couple of examples of lead gen, SaaS, and e-com examples. So over here, you can see the overarching framework, and you can see that without proper unit economics, your campaigns will become unscalable. And if you ever wondered why some of your competitors might be able to dominate the search engine result pages where you are getting hardly any traction that is often due to their unit economics and your business's unit economics so let's zoom in on what unit economics actually are so if you look at the definition of unit economics then you will get this definition unit economics attempt to simplify the analysis of complex businesses and strategies by measuring profitability on a per unit basis and i will give you a couple of examples per vertical later on so unit economics basically determine your campaign viability and they are the hidden foundation of successful advertising doesn't matter if you're running ads on google ads meta ads twitter or whatever if your unit economics are poor then your perfectly google ads campaign or your perfect meta ads campaign won't make sense at all. And they won't do anything because you're unable to scale properly. So let me tell you why unit economics matter. So your unit economics determine the max CPCs you're able to set. And that basically determines if your ROAS and CPA targets are somewhat realistic or not. And based on your unit economics and the CPA and ROAS targets you need to hit in order to break even. That in itself determines the market competitiveness of your particular ads versus your direct peers. It also influences your campaign scalability because if your unit economics are relatively poor and you have to hit a really high break-even ROAS or a really low target CPA in order to break even in that case your campaigns might be unscalable and you might be having a hard time to drive any profitable traffic and to gain traction. So you want to start with solid unit economics before you actually start working on your Google Ads campaigns because they really determine if you are getting traction or not. So let's go over a couple of unit economics per vertical so it makes a little bit more sense. So let me try to give you a couple of examples so you know why this matters and where you need to pay attention to. So let me tell you a couple of e-commerce essential unit economics to begin with. So the first actual unit economic that makes sense for e-com is average order value, the AOV. The AOV actually equals your revenue divided by the number of orders that is giving you the average revenue per order so to say and this tells you what a customer spends on average per order and that is critical to understand the potential of your campaigns and it directly impacts your bidding power because if your AOV is relatively low whereas your cost per sale is relatively high that means that you are getting into the danger zone and you aren't getting enough room in terms of gross profit, for example, that can be allocated towards Google Ads to acquire new customers. On the other hand, if your AOV is relatively high and your cost per sale is relatively okay and reasonable, that will mean that your gross margin could be somewhat safe and you could build in a couple of, well, you could build in proper room in order to bid more aggressively and to gain traction with your Google Ads campaigns. it also comes down to your gross margin where your gross margin equals your revenue minus cost of goods sold divided by your revenue that is your so-called gross margin for example if you have a 40 gross margin you will have an average of 40 profit on a 100 sale a sale of 100 in terms of revenue and this basically shows you the profit left after direct costs such such as product costs and stuff like that and your gross margin basically determines how much you can spend on ads because the higher your gross margin the more room you have in terms of profit to allocate towards acquisition channels such as google ads if your gross margin is relatively low and you have a gross margin of let's say 10% on a $100 sale, that means you only have a $10 gross margin to work with. So you need to hit a break even CPA of $10 in order to don't lose any money, so to say. And that leads to unscalability, essentially. So the higher your gross margin, the more your traction is going to be the more competitive your bids etc your gross margin determines your break-even ROAS like i said already so your break-even ROAS is calculated with a simple formula one divided by your gross margin so let's say you have a 40 percent gross margin then your break-even ROAS is going to be a 2.5x or 250 percent depending on how you look at things now you format your ROAS So that means that I need to hit at least a $2.5 revenue based on every dollar spent on advertising. And the higher your margin is, the lower your break-even ROAS is going to be. So the more easy it is to make your campaigns profitable because, well, your minimum ROAS, your break-even ROAS is the minimum ROAS you need to cover your costs. and obviously you have to exceed that particular break-even ROAS to become profitable. So lastly we have a last example which is your customer acquisition cost also known as the CAC. The CAC equals your cost of sales plus marketing divided by the number of customers you acquired. This is the cost to acquire one new paying customer. Obviously this needs to be lower than the customer value the customer lifetime value for example otherwise your customer acquisition costs are going to be higher and you're going to to lose out on money essentially and essentially the better your your customer acquisition costs and the higher your customer value the more you're able to scale because the the more room you have between the two values the more scaling potential there is essentially. So let me tell you why some of these metrics matters according to a couple of one particular example. So let's say you have a too low average order value, a too low AOV. That means you cannot bid competitively because it's hard to reach your break-even ROAS and your target ROAS. If you have poor gross margins, for example, you just have a gross margin of 10% instead of 40% or 50%, in that case, you might have a unrealistic break-even ROAS and also really unrealistic ROAS targets. Because if your break-even ROAS is unrealistic to begin with, then what happens if you want to set ROAS targets? In that case, you might not be able to get any traction at all. So you need proper gross margins in order to set realistic ROAS targets in this particular case and lastly a high customer acquisition cost could lead to limited scaling potentials essentially if your cock is nearing your clv your customer lifetime value then you're going to become somewhat in the danger zone so you have to take into consideration your cock and also your clv to see how much room there's left to scale your ads to acquire new customers without losing too much profit essentially. So a simple example, let's say you have an AOV of $100 and your gross margin is 40%. That means that your gross margin equals $40. In that case, your break-even ROAS equals 2.5X or 250%, meaning every dollar spent on advertising needs to equal at least 2.5 dollars in order to don't lose out on any money and become unprofitable and if you take a look at your maximum CAC your customer acquisition costs to be profitable in this case just by looking at a simple formula like this with without taking into consideration repeat orders and stuff like that you need to to be under the 40 dollar mark which is your gross margin, so to say, without having to lose any money. So let me give you a couple of additional examples for lead gen and then also SaaS. So for lead gen, you might be looking at a unit economic metric like your average deal value, where the calculation equals your revenue divided by the number of closed deals, which are essentially your hard conversions, your macro conversions that you want to look at as a lead gen for example you have 200k in revenue and you have 20 closed deals that means that your average deal value equals 10k per deal this is going to be the foundation for all of your lead gen specific calculations because it for example sets the maximum viable lead cost that you can that you are able to hit without going to be losing out on money so another unit economic that is really important for lead gen is your lead to sale rate for example if you look at the calculation this is going to be your closed deals divided by the number of total leads times 100 that is going to give you the lead to sale rate for example you might have 40 closed deals and also 200 leads in that case since you only closed 40 deals out of the 200 leads, your lead to sale rate equals 20%. And this determines how many leads you are going to need per sale. And this is going to be critical for cost per lead targets and also your break even cost per lead. So let's look at that particular metric. So your cost per lead equals total spend divided by the number of leads. For example, you might have a $20K spend divided by 200 leads. That equals to a 100 cost per lead, a $100 CPL. This is going to be your first step in the profitability chain and it must align with your deal value. So let's take a look at the last unit economic that I want to address over here, which is your customer acquisition cost, also known as the CAC. The calculation over here is CPL divided by your lead to sale rate. For example, you have a $100 CPL divided by a 20% lead to sale rate. So that means that 20% of your leads result in a closed deal. That equals to a $500 customer acquisition cost. And this is going to include all of the sale process costs. And this must be lower than the deal profit margin. So If we compare the CAC, the customer acquisition cost over here, which is $500, and we compare it to the average deal value of 10K revenue per deal, then we are somewhat safe. If you look at the ratio between the two, but obviously we do not know the profits that are associated with the deal value. So let's say we have a 50% profit margin on every single deal. that means that our average profit per deal could lead to 5k profits 50% of 10k revenue so a 5k profit per close deal compared to a 500 customer acquisition cost that is a 10x that's a 10x in value so in that case we're really safe over here and this is how you can look at your unit economics and see where some of the critical points might lay and where you need to zoom into. So let me tell you why these metrics matter. If you have a poor lead to sale rate, for example, you will gain zero to non-traction because you will have a very high CAC, a very high customer acquisition cost, and that will result in a relatively low target CPL because the lower your lead to sale rate, the lower your target CPL needs to be in order to make up for your poor lead to sale rate. It also works the other way around. If you have a really high lead to sale rate, that means that your target CPL can be relatively competitive because your sales team is capable of closing way more leads than on average, for example. Second point, let's look at what a low deal value means. If you have a low deal value, then you won't be able to bid competitively because of also a low target CPL. the lower your deal deal value the more you need to watch out for your target cpl in order to not lose lose out on profit so yeah the higher your deal value the more room you will have in terms of target cpl especially in combination with a really solid lead to sale rate that would lead to an even higher target cpl and that equals more traction so lastly we have a high gag situation in that situation it might limit your profit margin and therefore also your acquisition targets in that case you have to be really careful with your target cpl as well so the better and the lower your acquisition costs essentially and the higher your deal value based on a customer lifetime value and the better your lead to sale rates the more competitive your bids can be and the more traction you will have inside of the search engine result pages so let's look at a simple example so let's say you have a deal value of 10k your profit margin is 30 that means that you will have a three thousand dollar profit margin where your lead to sale margin of sorry lead to sale rate equals 20 in that case your target cpl your target cost per lead should be anything below $600 because your profit margin of $3,000 times your lead to sale rate of 20% equals $600. And that is basically going to be your break-even point. Your target CAC, your target customer acquisition cost could also not exceed your profit margin of $3,000. So you always have to be below those certain thresholds so to say. So let's look at SaaS as a last vertical to give you some additional examples. So we've got four essential unit economics to understand over here as well and the first one is the average revenue per user also known as the ARPU. The calculation of ARPU is your monthly recurring revenue also known as MRR divided by the number of actively paying customers for example you might have a 100k MRR divided by 1000 paying customers that means that your average revenue per user is 100 dollars so this is basically going to be your foundation for all SaaS related calculations if you're going to look what you can spend on acquisition for example and it also determines your acquisition budgets your bids and it trickles down just like the e-comm and lead gen, um, examples. Then a second essential unit economic to understand is the customer lifetime value, sorry, the customer lifetime in months. So this is quite simple to understand as well. Uh, the calculation over here is one divided by the monthly churn rate. For example, one divided by a monthly churn rate of 5% of paying customers that ends their contract, equals in an average of 20 months of average lifetime. This is going to be critical for lifetime value LTV calculations. And this indicates your product stickiness. This is how they call it. How sticky is your product? Your lifetime is going to translate into the lifetime value because the lifetime value is essentially made out of the ARPU, the average revenue per user, times the customer lifetime, the amount of months they stay as a customer on average, times your margin. So let's say your ARPU equals $100, like the first example, times 20 months, which your average customer lifetime in months, times a gross profit of 70%. That means that your LTV equals $1,400. So the lifetime value of, of your customers on average equals $1,400. And this is going to be your maximum CAC, right? Your maximum customer acquisition spend, because it cannot be significantly higher or higher at all than your LTV. Because if the CAC is going to be higher than this particular lifetime value, then you're going to lose out on money in the long run. So lastly, let's zoom in on the CAC. Once again, the CAG equals the total acquisition cost divided by new paying customers. For example, let's say you spent $40,000 to Google Ads and you acquired 100 new customers. Then you have a CAG of $460. If you compare that $460 of CAG versus the $1,400 of lifetime value, then you have a a relatively safe ratio because there's an golden rule in terms of SaaS unit economics that you need to have an LTV at least of three out of three to one. So your LTV needs to be three times as high as your CAC, your acquisition cost, so to say. So these numbers are going to be essential and that are going to be determining the scalability of your Google ads campaigns, because if your LTV to CAC rate is relatively safe, for example, you have a rate ratio of five to one where your LTV is five times as high as your acquisition costs. That means that you have a lot of scalability issues without running into problems straight away. But on the other hand, if your LTV equals your CAC, that means that you're breaking even on the long run for every newly acquired customer, then you are in the danger zone because you aren't going to make any money. You need to wait for your money to come in during the lifetime of your customer. In this particular example, you have to wait 20 months before your acquisition costs are paid back, essentially. So this is how unit economics work and how they determine the scalability of your ads. So let me tell you why these metrics matter for the SaaS example once again. So a poor ARPU means that you cannot afford to spend money on customer acquisition because the average revenue per user will be too low. A hard churn might mean that you have a reduced customer lifetime and therefore also a reduced customer lifetime value because the more people terminate their contracts, the lower your lifetime value is going to be in the end so therefore the churn rate is going to be a deciding factor into these calculations as well a low lifetime value of your customers will result in a limited acquisition budget and difficult to hit targets because the lower the lifetime value of your customers the lower your target acquisition costs need to be in order to not lose out on any money and on the other hand if your CAC is too high that might result in very very slow growth and difficult to gain tractions because the higher your CAC in comparison to your LTV that means that the rate might be off and you will have to scale down essentially and look at your efficiency instead of your growth. So example let's say we have an ARPU of $100 per month, and the gross margin equals 70%, and your customer lifetime equals to 20 months, that essentially means that you have a 5% monthly churn. If we're going to calculate the lifetime value of your customers, then that equals to $1,400. $100 ARPU times 70% gross margin times 20 months they stay they become a client on average then we're going to translate that to the maximum CAC the maximum CAC you want to be you you want to be at at most is the golden rule of three to one so essentially you are dividing the fourteen hundred dollars divided by three and that will equal to $467 based on the golden LTV to CAC rule. So that means that in terms of acquisition costs, you cannot really exceed the $467 mark if you're going up, going above that and your lifetime value isn't going to be expanding or improving, then you're going to have a problem in the long run because in this case, you still have to wait for 20 months before your acquisition costs are being covered, so to say, and you still make money, but we aren't even going to talk about a LTV to CAG rate below three. So let's say it's one-to-one. In that case, if your CAG is $1,400 and your lifetime value is $1,400 as well, where you have to wait 20 more months before the money came into your bank account, so to say, that means you're going to have some liquidity issues within your within your business so this is why understanding unit economics and numbers is so darn important you don't have to study financial economics to understand this you only need to understand the basic unit economics per vertical the ones that you need to pay attention to as a google ad specialist because every single unit economic is going to translate in your efficiency targets And that's going to decide if your campaigns are going to have traction or not. So it's really important to get this right. So these are just some basic metrics that you need to be aware of. Things can become way more advanced, but that is beyond the scope of this particular foundational lesson. If you really want to dive deeper into this, you can start reading books about this. You can start doing deep dive courses into unit economics. You can also brainstorm within ChatGPT to see if there are other unit economics that you need to be aware of within a particular vertical like B2B, lead gen or e-com. But the ones that I just went over are the most important ones that I think that you need to fully understand to actually determine if your campaigns are going to be scalable. So my recommendation would be to go over these metrics first, try to understand them to the try to get these metrics from your customers so you understand how their unit economics look like and where you need to calculate with. And based on that, you can decide if your goals are going to be viable, if your targets are going to be efficient and stuff like that. So it really trickles down starting from the unit economics. So sometimes you might come across campaigns that aren't having traction at all and you're like man i feel like stuck my bits aren't competitive enough but my client says that i cannot exceed this particular target cost per action level or i need to stay at this particular break even row as otherwise my client tells me that it won't be profitable for me to run ads if you come across those kinds of situations that might be that might be a big red flag for you and that might indicate that there are underlying unit economics related problems so you might have these problems when you're unable to bid competitively in your industry and you have you fail to have any traction inside of the search engine result page you're forced to target only bottom of the funnel keywords because the more generic keywords are too expensive to bid on and they do not convert that well meaning that you cannot really hit your efficiency targets because your unit economics don't make sense you can't afford upper funnel campaigns if you're stuck in only the bottom of the funnel campaign types like search or shopping and you cannot you cannot launch any upper funnel campaign types like display or video that might indicate that you have an underlying unit economics problem as well and you need to look into your margins your your lead to sale rates, your churn rates, whatever your vertical is and the unit economics that makes sense for your vertical. Or lastly, you find yourself over-optimizing for efficiency instead of growth. This is a big red flag that I came across in my career as well, where I was looking for optimizations only related to efficiency, because that was the only thing that I was able to do. Growth was out of the question because the unit economics were that poor that I basically had a really conservative efficiency targets to work with and if you cannot really focus on growth and you're forced on efficiency instead that means that generally speaking the underlying unit economics are poor and that's going to lead to unscalable campaigns so over here I've got a really really solid example of one of my previous clients so over here you can see the dashboard of profit metrics, they are essentially tracking the revenue all the way to the contribution margin of your Google ads campaigns in this particular sense. So over here, you can see that the revenue I brought in, in October, 2024 equaled 40.2 K. So solid, solid, solid revenue, right? And my Google ads costs were only 3.3 K. So that's really, yeah, that's really solid. But the problem is that the gross margin only equals 12%. So just 12% of this particular revenue ended up being gross margin. So my gross margin was essentially close to 5K. Revenue 40.2K, gross margin to work with 5K before ad spend. So now let's deduct ad spend of 3.3K. That equals a contribution margin of just 4%. So we are bringing in 40.2K of revenue. The campaigns are costing us 3.3K in terms of a monthly spend, so to say. But the contribution is only 4%, 1.7K in terms of euros. And that is due to the fact of the very, very low gross profit margin and the very low average gross profit after ad spend of just 2.87 euros per yeah per order so to say so this is so incredibly low that your campaigns are simply not going to to be scalable at all so this is just a prime example of why unit economics makes sense and are one of the most important reasons why your campaigns might fail so here's an order example so over here you can see an order of two products, the paid order amount equaled 32 euros. The product costs alone were 20.2 euros. So there's only 10 euros or 12 euros left, so to say, in the, in the gross margin. But we still have to deduct the shipping costs of 6.5 euros that we paid as, as the business and also a one euro payment fee. So the gross profit of this particular order is just 4.64 euros out of a revenue of 32.28 euros. So if you're going to look at the break-even ROAS that you need to hit to not lose money on this particular sale, you would have to hit a break-even ROAS of 7.58, 758%, which is insane. because if you're going to hit these kinds of ROAS numbers, generally speaking, you're doing a solid job taking into account that the gross profit margins are relatively higher on average. But these gross profit margins are just so poor that the unit economics don't make sense at all. So breaking the ROAS of 758%, that's when we don't lose money, but obviously you still want to make money as a business owner, as a advertiser, So in this case, if we were to allocate like 75% of the gross profit that was left over from this sale back to the acquisition, so back to Google Ads essentially, then we would need to hit at least a ROAS target of 1000%. So that's completely undoable. So therefore getting traction with these kinds of numbers, forget it, just forget it. So this is why unit economics are so, so, so important to understand and to get right. Because if you have poor unit economics, you're not going to go anywhere. So I answered this already. Do you think these metrics allow you to scale? Well, hard, no, not at all. So if you see the warning signs, there might be underlying issues. So I want to go over a couple of underlying issues for just lead gen as an example. And then we are going to wrap up this lesson. I'm not going to go over e-com and SaaS as well, because otherwise the lesson will be too long. But just to give you some ideas about where to look and where to optimize in order to improve your unit economics. So let's look at some lead gen examples. So one of the root causes of poor unit economics for lead gen could be lead to sale rate issues. For example, the issue could be poor lead gen poor lead quality it could also be that your sales team is just not following up correctly and this is a big problem a lot of the times where the sales team isn't calling calling the the leads in a timely manner or they're not following up at all so your lead to sale rate will become relatively low that's going to hit your numbers so if you have a poor lead quality for example in that case a possible solution to that particular problem could be adding pre-qualifying questions to forms creating better qualifying content improving ad targeting position but if your sales team is the issue because they are not following up your leads in a timely manner in that case a possible solution would be to really check in on your sales team every single day to see if they're actually putting in the work to follow up and to try to close the deal. They might need a sales training in order to directly close a lead. Maybe they're just unskilled, unskilled sales persons. So in that particular case, you can look at those kinds of possible solutions. An issue could also be low sales conversion rates. Like I just, like I just told you, so you could improve sales team response time. You could develop lead scoring systems that will help your sales team to prioritize certain leads. You could create automated nurture sequences without having to rely on your sales team. So in this case, you're relying on automation, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. A second and root cause of poor unit economics for lead gen could be due to low average deal sizes. In this case, possible solutions could be to focus on higher value services. service, maybe you're selling the wrong service. Maybe you're selling, maybe you're focusing on the wrong service at all. You might be able to create service bundles. So if you're an online marketing agency and a lead is coming in Google Ads outsourcing, you might be able to bundle that service with SEO, for example. So you're basically offering search engine marketing instead of just only advertising. combining it with SEO, organic optimization as well. You might add upsell opportunities. So if people come into a particular service or a particular solution, you might be able to upsell them to a higher package. In that case, you can increase the average deal size, and that will trickle down into your target CPA, your maximum CAC, and stuff like that as well. So an issue could also be due to long sales cycles sometimes your sales cycle is just too long and that's going to generate deal value issues maybe people are dropping off it's taking them too low too long your sales team isn't following following up in a certain way so you can find possible solutions like creating urgency with just limited time up offers they have to decide they have to basically sign the deal within a time span of maximum one month, because after one month, prices are going to get up or it's just too late. You can improve proposal processes. You can automate follow-up sequences. So you can automate the follow-up and you can start nurturing leads all the way down to a hopefully closed deal. You can set clear next steps. So you can tell your lead or your qualified lead okay you just came in thank you for reaching out this is going to happen so they know what is going to happen and hopefully that is going to shorten the sales cycle because they know okay i'm going to get called in an hour or two they're going to sit down with me to go over my personal situation they're going to show me how their solution is going to help solve my problem etc etc etc and lastly you might have lead quality issues an issue could be that you're you're setting misaligned expectations so you could have to look into your landing pages because your pricing is incorrect or not clear unclear at all maybe you have to to update your service descriptions because they are vague and you need to make them more transparent maybe you need to set better expectations maybe you need to need to have a qualification call from your sales team before before they're heading into the next phase as a sales qualified lead for example those could all help solve lead quality issues and lastly you could have wrong type of leads so you could also look into your keywords maybe you have to to target better qualifying keywords maybe you have to tighten up audience targeting. Maybe your content needs to be focused on your ideal customer profile in a way that is too generic right now to hopefully bring in qualified leads that are a more better fit to your ideal customer profile, so to say. So oftentimes, poor unit economics cannot be solved with in-platform Google Ads optimizations. and you want to fix your problems at the source. So I just gave you a couple of examples of lead gen specific unit economics relying issues and potential root causes of those issues. It really needs some work. You need to start digging for underlying problems. But if you can find the root cause of why your unit economics are so poor and you can solve them, that means that it will trickle down into better unit economics and better unit economics means that you will have more room to bid more aggressively essentially within google ads and that will lead to more scalability scalability challenges or scalability opportunities i have to say so make sure to never never never forget about unit economics personally speaking when i onboard new clients they are inside of my onboarding process because I'm not going to work for any Ecom player with really poor gross margins ever again. I'm not going to work with a B2C lead gen operator that has a terrible sales team that is terrible at closing leads because I could be the best Google ads specialist and I could send over a ton of leads, but if the sales problem or if the sales team is the problem, then in that case, the customer might be able to backfire on me because the Google ads campaigns might be unprofitable, even though my lead quality and my lead quantity is on a very solid level. So always do your due diligence, so to say, include this within your onboarding process and make sure to keep an eye on these metrics, if you can find a way to report on this every single quarter, maybe even real time, then you're in a very very very good place and you can immediately immediately tell where you need to focus your attention towards so let's end this with a couple of key takeaways so unit economics determine campaign viability poor unit economics can't be solved with any of your google ads optimizations you're going to have a very hard time and google ad success requires a holistic business approach as you can tell already it doesn't only come down to tactics google s strategy it also comes down to business so if the unit economics are poor google s isn't going to work for you and your campaigns will fail
