# Case study: Performance Max for Lead Gen

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** performance-max-shopping-mastery
- **Section:** Bonuses
- **Duration:** 08:32
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

Hey, what's up? And in this video, I want to quickly show you a case study where I have implemented Performance Max inside of a B2C lead gen account. So let's start off. So let me quickly tell you something about this particular client. So this is a B2C client that runs multiple lead generation focused campaigns across the board in all networks. So this client is using search, display, discovery, YouTube, every single campaign type you can imagine to basically get as much as conversion volume or volume across the board within our CPA targets. The client is active in a high volume industry that is insanely competitive. They do not have budget restrictions at all as long as CPA targets are being hit. We have two types of CPA targets. The max CPA of our non-branded search campaign is 10 euros this campaign type or this network well drives the most revenue and the most traffic this is our core cpa target for this account and this country we're advertising in we have a we have a separate max cpa for our upper funnel campaigns display youtube discovery etc which is two times the non-branded search cpa so it's 20 euros i'll generally use this two times non-branded cpa rule because you need some more wiggle room inside of your average bits in order to get some traction and get some volume in the upper funnel networks you cannot use the same cpa of your bottom of the funnel campaign type and expect serious volumes so that is why we have doubled the CPA in order to expand our reach so to say. So the goal of this client is to double down on every opportunity and to max out all networks within the target CPAs that we use. This is where we dove in the PMAX campaign type and basically we had two main issues or there were two main cons of using PMAX in our structure and the first con is that PMAX can heavily cannibalize hard with other campaign types or other campaigns if for example wrong targets are being set also performance max still is a black box and for this client since it's such a big client and everything is well doing great we still want to retain some insights and we still want to retain some control instead of giving it all away to one simple campaign type like PMAX. We still wanted to leverage PMAX because our goal is still to use everything in our toolbox to maximize volumes and maximize conversion volumes within the target CPAs. So this is where we thought about how can we leverage PMAX and have a solution for all of the problems that we see, potential problems that we see so the first solution is to limit the ad rank of our performance max campaigns and we can do so by using the same cpa targets as our non-branded search campaigns if you were or if we were to leverage pmax and we were to use a higher cpa target within our pmax campaigns in comparison to our dedicated non-branded search campaigns and not all keywords are being prioritized within the keyword based campaigns, then basically BMX is starting to cannibalize really aggressively. So we want to limit the ad crank and we can do so by using the same CPA targets of our non-branded search campaigns. We also want to use dedicated top of the funnel campaign types like display you to discovery with more aggressive targets to still grow beyond, well, search alone. And we need a little bit more wiggle room inside of the CPCs that I've explained a few minutes ago earlier as well. And hence, we have increased the CPI targets of our upper funnel campaigns. And we cannot do this for our BMX campaigns, because if we do, it will start to cannibalize quite hard and quite aggressively with our non-branded search campaigns. and that's something that we do not want basically we want to favor internal matching as well towards search and funnel all of the search queries towards search whenever possible by adding high volume keywords so google is still using a sort of campaign type or keyword selection hierarchy that favors your keywords before pmx if the match of the keyword is similar to the query So that is why it is important to add high volume search keywords to your search campaigns. So that way you will also favor internal matching towards your search campaigns instead of it going to PMAX where it starts to cannibalize otherwise. And in fact, by doing all of this, we can then see PMAX as a DSA plus broad campaign as an additional layer on top of the search campaigns that we have already put in place on steroids so that's how i like to use pmx inside of my campaigns i do not see it as a as a one campaign type to rule them all where you can basically ditch all of the other campaign types i see it as an extra layer to fill in the gaps and to pluck the holes and look for potential irrelevant well converting volume over that is additional to all of the campaign types that you've already put in place. So this is a screenshot of the account we have discussed over here. And that is where you can see on the bottom row that PMAX is basically driving a lot of additional volume, a lot of additional clicks, conversions within the actual target CPA. So the target CPA over here is 10 euros. Once again, we're seeing the target CPAs being hit inside all of our or most of our non-branded search campaigns they are starting with zero two in the campaign name and pmx is basically well driving a lot of more revenue and a lot of more conversions on top of that if you were to do a before and after analysis so we are really happy with the results yes pmx is still cannibalizing a little bit with certain queries inside of our search campaign we take that for granted but and that is because we are seeing an increment incremental uplift of the volumes inside of this specific account so if you take a look at what we try to achieve that's actually happening so this is a screenshot from the currently outdated or a previous version of mike rhodes script where you can see the spent allocation of these pmx campaigns And you can see that they are really heavily search or bottom of the funnel focused. So you can see that they are driving volumes from additional long tails, additional queries where we haven't had exposure before, or right now we have some increased exposure. So it is doing exactly what we wanted. And basically we wanted to create a DSA campaign on steroids and that's happening. So what I continue to do for this client is basically scanning through the inside report of the PMAX campaign, looking for new additional keyword themes that are relevant to obtain within our dedicated search campaigns as well. So I want to rely less on PMAX in the near future, but I wanted to run side by side to basically do whatever I can, do whatever I can with the campaign types within the toolbox I have to maximize the results for this specific B2C lead gen client. So hopefully this was interesting for you. This is just a small look inside of the kitchen of my personal kitchen. so hope you like this and hope you got some ideas out of this so that's it and yeah let's end it with there hopefully see you in the next lesson and see you around ciao
