# Checklist Google Merchant Center setup

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** performance-max-shopping-mastery
- **Section:** Module 3: Data input
- **Duration:** 02:30
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

It's real easy to get lost in all of the possibilities and tasks and features inside of your Google Merchant Center account. And therefore, we have created an extensive Google Merchant Center setup and configuration checklist that you can use in order to get your basics covered and to optimize your Google Merchant Center account like a professional. so in this lesson you will learn the google merchant center setup and configuration tasks that you should and can consider and which tasks are required recommended and optional to complete so you can use our google merchant center setup checklist to get your basics covered and utilize advanced configurations like the product protection comparison shopping services also known as CSS partners, setting up promotions and whatnot, and much more. So the Google Merge Center setup checklist can be found below this particular video. It is an extensive Google sheet. This is just a screenshot of the, well, above the fold of the checklist. You can use it to check off important, required, recommended, optional, or it depends tasks. I've made sure to categorize all of the tasks that you can consider completing. And I've also made sure to tell you the potential impact of a certain task. So you can prioritize all of the tasks when setting up or configurating a Google Merchant Center account. So you will see that I've classified a task within categories like account setup, add-ons slash programs, additional configurations, business info, linking accounts product data shipping services return policies and way more categories so create a copy of this particular checklist and use it to your advantage in the next couple of lessons i'll make sure to keep referring to this particular checklist as we will zoom in on certain checks and tasks that are included within this particular checklist so if something isn't clear from the very first start, please know that I will be creating a video for a certain task if it's worthwhile or if it is needed to give you some more information or an explanation about what needs to be done or what can be done. So I hope you like the checklist and well, make sure to use it when you configure or set up a GMC account yourself.
