# Performance-based buckets using Producthero Labelizer

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** performance-max-shopping-mastery
- **Section:** Module 4: Campaign structure
- **Duration:** 24:44
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

Welcome in this video and in this video I want to show you how easy it is to set up a performance-based bucketing structure by utilizing Product Hero Pro. So inside of Product Hero Pro you will find the labelizer tool that they have become famous with and it works perfect. So if you want to set it up using a Product Hero make sure to select their pro package because everything is included within there. So once you have selected the appropriate account that you want to set up the performance-based bucketing structure for. Make sure to head over to, well, Advertising, which is this particular link. And over here, you can essentially start creating the first segment. Well, I've already created my first all products segment that has been created in August. You can see some numbers over here. You can see that I have 1200 products inside over here. My product Hero targets ROAS, which is actually my POAS, is being set to 92% and this hasn't been configured yet. The number of clicks threshold is 15. The cost in the last 30 days was 1800 euros. We had 255 conversions. So this is the overall, well, main segment, your basically your core Product hero labelizer bucketing that is targeting all different sorts of products so the the labelizer strategy that you have configured in this particular segment is basically targeting all products across all different brands across all different product types etc so if you have multiple product types or multiple different brands with wildly differing ROAS targets because of different margins and different maybe also different conversion rates and therefore you also need a different click threshold in order to create proper buckets for then you might also want to add additional product groups that you can see over here so if you have well outliers so to say then you can also create well product type level groups for example minerals for this particular client where i'm going to segment on the first level of product type and then this particular segment because well this particular product type might have different margins conversion rates rawest targets etc and then if you add this particular group or whatever combination you you like then you can see all the metrics on the right hand side how the segment is going to look like and from here you can start adding that additional deeper layer that is going to override the settings on the all products level. So you can do this if you want to be more granular and want to be more specific with your labelizer strategy. But I would only advise you to do that if you have sufficient volumes, if you in fact do see a lot of different metrics and you have a lot of different ROAS targets because of different margins, etc. If that's not the case, I would stick with all products normally it's best to start off with the all products category see if you're able to well hit your conversion thresholds and from that point if you get the hang of it there you can start experimenting with adding more segments if you do meet all of the requirements that i just mentioned so with that out of the way let's start configuring the actual labelizer strategy by hitting adjust labelizer strategy and this is essentially the wizard that you will enter if you haven't created anything or if you're just hitting the call to action so basically there are two metrics that you or three metrics that you want to configure first off is your date range so the default date range is 30 days depending on the fluctuations inside of your account and depending on the conversion volumes and volumes in general you can decide if you want to for example have a longer date range or a shorter date range but the recommended date range for most of the accounts is 30 days but sometimes I have set the date range to for example 60 days because obviously if you look back 60 days you will gather more data instead of the stabilizer structure and that will lead to less fluctuations and less ping-ponging between labels essentially. So that's a tactic that you can consider if you have the feeling that you're flip-flopping across buckets way too soon. Generally speaking that happens when you have well a little conversion volume or little volumes in general. But another tactic is just using the 30 days date range and instead of uploading the supplemental data source inside of google merchant center daily you can also upload that weekly so the labels per product are only going to be revised and updated every single week for example every single monday night at 2 a.m instead of every single day and that will also cause less flip-flopping between your google shopping or pmx campaigns instead of google ads but yeah recommended 30 days but you can go up to 60 days personally i've never used shorter date ranges but there might be cases for that then you have the product hero row as target and the product hero row as target is essentially the in-app row as target the threshold that product hero is going to look at in order to determine if it's a hero, sidekick, villain or well or basically zombie. It is advised to set this 25% lower than your average. Well this is a weird situation because over here this is essentially the POAS, the profit on ad spend. This particular customer has a relatively well relatively extremely low margin and therefore also is active at the break-even point. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to set this to 100% and 100% is my break even. Well, basically this is the region that, well, I break even. Everything above 100% means that I'm making money. Everything below means that I'm losing money. I could also be a little bit more conservative and create a little bit more room and go for 110, for example. But the higher I go and the more I'm going to be next to my actual target POAS, which is around 100, the more it's going to, the dangerous it's going to be. And there are several reasons for that. I'm not going to go through all of the dangerous, well, dangers of setting this to your actual ROAS or POAS target inside of Google Ads. If you want to know all about that, make sure to go to the actual performance-based bucketing lesson. And over there, I'm going to highlight some of the reasons why you want to have a certain difference between the in-app product hero ROAS target or POAS target versus your actual ROAS target or your actual average ROAS inside of your Google Ads account. For now, I'm just going to set this for 100%. And on the right-hand side, you can immediately see how the product distribution is going to look like so as you can see we have a lot of zombies because well this client is in such a competitive market where well a lot of products are simply just not competitive at all meaning they're not getting delivered by by google ads per default so we can change that by creating a zombie bucket and then separate that from the rest and maybe a bit more aggressively by utilizing a max conversions or max conversion strategy for example and you can see that well there are the the most conversion value which is the essential gross profit over here is coming in from the heroes and sidekicks but you can still see that zombies and villains are making more than 50 percent of the costs so this is pretty imbalanced and that's what we can change by utilizing a product hero strategy like you can see over here so let's continue configuring the next thing is to set up the number of clicks this is basically looking at the conversion rate instead of your account just go for the recommended clicks that are needed to well get a conversion so i get one conversion in every 15 clicks which is a relatively high conversion rate so i'm just going to leave that as is and then i'm going to go to next over here you can see the summary so over here you can see the the cost breakdown which is actually really handy so if you want whoops if you want to set up your bucketing structure inside of google ads it's important to basically copy paste the values you see over here so you can see how much budget you need to allocate for every single budget which is really handy then you need to select the custom label that you want to synchronize the the bucketing values the labelizer values for so if you don't do this well obviously then you cannot upload the bucketing value like hero sidekick villain zombie inside of gmc and that will make it hard to to segment your products inside of google ads so i'm going to go for custom label zero there you go and now i'm going to save and finish my strategy strategy change setup completed all right so i'm now inside of my product group which you can see over here so if i hit all products over here then i'm going to enter all of the details inside of this particular segmentation so over here you can see all of the different what trends metrics per bucket it's interesting to keep an eye on this so you know what's actually happening inside of your labelizing strategy and from here we essentially you want to look for the additional supplemental source that you can find on top over here you can copy this by just clicking this particular link you can also you can also set up your source settings over here where you can change your custom label where your product label labels are going to synchronize they're getting synchronized for you can also download the source or just copy the supplemental source that i just did so i make sure to copy it to my to my So if I'm now opening this particular file, then you can see that all of the item IDs you see over here are getting labeled. So they have been labeled by the Product Hero Labelizer. Now what I want to do is I want to add this supplemental source to my GMC account. So before we can do that, we want to head over to Settings and Tools. We want to head over to Data Sources and check if you can see the supplemental sources over here. If you don't see the supplemental sources, you have to essentially access the add-ons first over here and add the advanced data source management source or add-on, so to say. If this hasn't been added, you cannot add supplemental source. You can also not create feed rules and stuff like that. So if this particular add-on hasn't been added, it should be listed over here at your Add-on overview that you can see over here. And once you've added that, you can head over to products or basically data sources over here. Head over to supplemental source and over here, you can start adding your supplemental product data. So I want to add product data from a file. I have just copied, paste, pasted the link. I want to schedule this every single week at midnight, every single Monday at midnight. Reason I like to schedule this weekly instead of daily is that it leads to less fluctuations because sometimes high volume products tend to ping pong between product buckets. Isn't necessarily a bad thing, but it could lead to inconsistencies. And I find results to be more consistent by only uploading the updated performance labelizer labels every single week instead of daily. But that's completely up to you. This is what I like to do. And then we can essentially hit the primary data source and create data source. And now it should essentially look for the IDs inside of your primary feed. then it's going to match on the primary product id and then it's going to add the custom label zero value for every single product that it can find now we are just now we just need to wait a bit over here you can already see that all of the files have been all the products have been found so that's perfect and now let's see if we already see the depth yeah there we go so over here you can already see that the custom label zero has been added to the to the products so that's it so now you have added your custom labels which are essentially your product hero labelizer labels to your products and once your once your product data has been synchronized to google ads you can then start creating your buckets inside of google ads so i waited a bit for the custom label to synchronize from gmc to google ads that takes about 30 minutes or so sometimes even sooner or less and right now the custom labels have been synchronized so what i'm going to show you right now is to is how to create the actual buckets which is relatively simple to do so over here there hasn't been a labelizer structure been in place and you could tell by the shift in conversion value and also cost per label hero sidekick villain zombie but we're we're about to change that by implementing the labelizer performance-based bucketing structure so let me start creating a new standard shopping campaign so it's about it's it's your choice if you want to go for a standard shopping campaign or a performance max full asset or a only feed only campaign type you can see all the pros and the cons inside of this module as well i'm going to go for a standard shopping structure there we go i'm going to name this 05 pla product listing ads heroes plus sidekicks because i'm going to group them together because of limited conversion data per month i'm going to show you i'm going to explain why in a bit i'm going to start off with manual cpc and this is just for, well, the sake of showing you how to do this. So I actually noted down the suggested daily budgets by Product Hero based on the grouped performance data and also the cost data. So the heroes need 28 euros per month in terms of budget. The sidekicks need 18 euros in terms of monthly budget. So I'm going to go for a combined budget of 50 euros per month. So all of the Underlying labeled products, whether they are heroes or sidekicks, have plenty of budgets, so that's a good starting point. Then I'm going to, well, skip all of this heroes plus sidekicks, and we're going to set a default bid of one Euro. Ideally, you want to take a look at your historical data, see your, your effort CPCs, if you have historical data, and then make sure to, well, enter the appropriate bit, you can also do so on the product level or, well, other levels, depends on how you segment your product groups, but ideally you want to get some traction in the first couple of days, so this is obviously a new standard shopping campaign. There isn't any conversion data inside of this particular campaign. You cannot set a target ROAS from the very first start, so you have to go a little bit more aggressive. So therefore I like to start off with a manual CPC inside of standard shopping make sure it's above your average above the the well the relative CPC so to say so you get some traction in terms of volume if you're doing a performance max PLA only campaign type you can start off with a max conversion value or max conversion a bit strategy without a target and that's also to that's also going to be relatively aggressive so I'm going to go for this setting obviously once again this is an example so this isn't the exact science you see over here then we can start segmenting our product group so right now we're targeting all products we want to head over to custom label zero and we want to select heroes and sidekicks so you can see that we only have 27 and 97 heroes and sidekicks if you take a look at the combined conversion volume and also the the the budget needed in order to get these products going it isn't a lot so i'm going to combine these two segments and in order to combine conversion data essentially and that will hopefully combine also the well the conversion data on the campaign level and that will hopefully increase the learning period and therefore hopefully i can i can move to a target ROAS setting sooner instead of when I wanted to separate these in two separate buckets because obviously if you're just going to separate your heroes and then also your sidekicks you will need a longer period when you hit your conversion volume thresholds in order to transition to a target ROAS for example. The more conversion data on the campaign level the better usually and these two can be combined so therefore I'm going to combine them. If you have plenty of conversion volume or volume in general make sure to just segment these out in separate buckets but if you are somewhat constrained on volume you can create all sorts of combinations we've also created a create a lesson that zooms in about that particular tactic so how to combine several buckets in order to well achieve your goals so make sure to head over to the performance-based bucketing lesson if you want to learn more about that so let's continue and save what is very important is to exclude this segment which is everything else in all products if you don't do that then you will also target villains and zombies inside of this particular bucket and that's not something you want because you only want to target heroes and sidekicks inside of these two product groups so over here you can segment further for example on brand product type the deeper you go the more specific your max cpcs can be i like to start off relatively broad because right now you want to gather volume you want to gather conversion volume and it's much easier to set a more aggressive or well basically alter your max cpcs for all of your underlying hero and sidekick products on this particular higher level. If you're farther down the line, you can either be more specific, create sub-deficients, set different max CPCs, or ideally what I would suggest, transition to a target ROAS if you have the conversion volumes in place. You're looking to hit around 30 conversions in the last 30 days in order to transition to that. So that's what you want to aim for. Okay. So that's one bucket. next up is villains so i'm going to do the same well actually i'm going to copy paste this particular campaign which is easier where is my paste copy generally speaking the there it is i had to wait okay i'm going to wait a bit so there we go it has now been copied and pasted So now I want to rename this to villains, and I'm going to do the same for zombies. So I'm going to paste the campaign once again, and then we wait a little bit more until it has been created. All right, that is the last bucket created. So I'm going to rename this to zombies. And there we have our bucket. So now we want to adjust budgets first, according to what Product Heroes just did us. So villains is just 750. then zombies is 35 and now we're going to change the ad group name and the product group targeting let's start with villains first so we change the subdivision over here i'm going to include this and set the cpc to one euro once again just to show you how this needs to be done okay that is done then we move to zombies head over to the product group change the subdivision set to one euro save there we go so that's all set now we can essentially start running the campaigns start gather some data and then hopefully move towards a target row as setting on the hero sidekicks and villain structure relatively soon for the zombie bucket you can be more aggressive so in a standard shopping structure you could either well leave it on manual CPC utilize a higher than regular relative CPC you could also go for a target ROAS strategy if you have enough conversion volume and set it to a more aggressive target ROAS so you can get the ball rolling or if you're on PMAX you can also set it to for example max conversion value just to be a little bit more aggressive in if you compare it to for example hero sidekicks and villains so that's it really easy to set up make sure to keep an eye on your well your product hero trends because sometimes you need to adjust your your strategy basically your labelizer strategy because your ROAS target might change your average ROAS might change, your conversion rate might be affected, leading, resulting in a different click threshold from click to conversion essentially. So make sure to check your labelizer strategy regularly and also follow all of the best practices that we went over in the theory lesson. So that's it. With that, I want to end the lesson and good luck setting this up yourself.
