# Advanced campaign segmentation ideas

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** performance-max-shopping-mastery
- **Section:** Module 4: Campaign structure
- **Duration:** 01:14:47
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

All right, now you understand the overarching principles for campaign structures for Performance Max and standard shopping campaigns when it comes to, for example, consolidation versus segmentation, keeping brand in it or excluding brand. And what I'm gonna do now, it's time to get tactical. And I'm gonna load in a video from Bob that he recorded on how to structure your campaigns, which is extremely important because your campaign structure gives you a lot of levers and controls and is one of the things that you can impact that actually has the biggest impact on your results. This video contains about nine or 10 different segmentations that you can choose from depending on the complexity of your account, your goals, your conversion volumes, et cetera. So yeah, I'm gonna load it in now. It's time to get tactical. Go through this video and get inspired on what is possible. And then based on the things that Bob is showing, you can use that information to determine which campaign structure is actually the one that you should go for and then beneath this video there's also walkthroughs for different setups like for example the performance-based bucketing or different other other segmentations so without further ado i'm going to load in bob and good luck with your campaign structures in this video i want to elaborate on a couple of advanced campaign segmentation ideas within obviously shopping so in this lesson you will learn more about the most effective campaign segmentations out there so these are campaign segmentations that we frequently use or have used in the past and also a couple of popular campaign tactics that are well widely adopted by a lot of google ad specialists around the world you will also learn well the reasons to use certain campaign segmentation tactics that i'm about to discuss in this video so i will zoom in more i will zoom in on the why so why is it that you want to consider certain campaign tactics and you will also learn why certain campaign tactics might not be applicable to your unique case and lastly I'm also going to elaborate on the how so how the segmentations work and how to implement them in theory so I'm not going to show you how to implement them in the use interface just yet but I have prepared several separate videos for high impact slash popular segmentation tactics where I'm about to show you how you need to set them up inside of the user interface but this video is going to be theoretical nonetheless it's well it's not less good I think the theory is really really interesting and I think you shouldn't skip this video so in this lesson once again we're going to discuss advanced segmentations. And before we dive in, you have to imagine that your campaign structure is like a big, big Lego set. You have like a big foundational layer where you can build all sorts of, well, different structures upon, and you have access to a couple of, well, widely available building blocks, which are your, well, Lego blocks, so to say. And with these Lego blocks, you can either build really simple structures like the simple house on the left hand side, or you can end up with really complex campaign segmentation structures for your unique case that might make sense. So while everybody has access to the same Lego blocks, in most cases, everybody will eventually end up with really different structures that are relevant for them in their unique case. So it's really up to you and your unique situation and your personal goals, how your structure is going to look like. And often, well, basic campaign consolidations like, well, one Performance Max campaign or just one standard shopping campaign do not make sense. And often we have to go beyond that in order to achieve a particular goal. So let's discuss a couple of reasons to go beyond basic campaign structures, which are basically consolidated shopping campaigns. So for example, reasons to go beyond that and to adopt a advanced campaign tactic might be that you want to give your best performing products, the attention they deserve, or that you want to cap spending on underperforming products. You want to push zero impression products that are not going to get pushed by Google because, well, maybe Google is not giving them the chance to deliver and to get the impression. Maybe you want to push them in order to see if they can get some traction. Or maybe you want to allocate your budgets towards products that are currently on sale. Maybe you're running a very big sale right now and you want to push all of the products that are currently on sale instead of all of the regular non-sale products. Maybe you want to bid more aggressively on new products to get traction fast. For example, inside of the fashion industry, new collections and new products always tend to, well, outperform older products in older collections. And maybe you want to push them instead of the older collections that might be on sale as well and lastly maybe you want to bid less aggressively on products that are out of stock or nearing out of stock if your products are in fact out of stock you shouldn't be bidding on them but if they are running out of stock so let's say you're selling this t-shirt and for this t-shirt i only have one particular size left which is extra large well in that case i might want to bid less aggressively on that particular product because chances are that it won't convert very very well in comparison to products that have well a lot of variants available like small medium large extra large in all of the colors well conversion rates are generally higher on those products than this product with just one exotic size basically left so these are just some examples why you need to go beyond basic campaign structures in order to well allocate different budgets, set different bits for different use cases, for different unique goals. So this is where advanced segmentation tactics come in to, well, basically achieve those goals. They give you greater control and often drive better results. So in this lesson, I want to go over a couple of advanced segmentation tactics that I will elaborate separately in the upcoming minutes. It's going to be a relatively long lesson, but I think it's going to be a really important one because it's going to give you a lot of ideas about, well, how you can think about advanced campaign segmentations within shopping. And if you study them correctly, I think if you come across certain situations for your stakeholders or clients, you know, in fact, what you can do and can achieve with certain advanced segmentations. So you need to know about them in the first place. So I will go through these ones step by step but let's quickly go through all of them in this particular slide so we can segment by category which is on the category level we can segment by best sellers versus regular products where we want to push best seller products or best selling products over regular products we can segment by products on sale versus regular products products not on sale. So we can, for example, push products on sale, or we can allocate different budgets to them. We can segment by price competitiveness. So maybe you want to segment, well, based on how competitively priced your products are and allocate more budgets and maybe bid more aggressively on products that you know are really competitively priced and are really in demand right now. So that's a thing that you can achieve by segmenting on price competitiveness. You can also segment by new products versus old products really interesting for fashion retailers for example this is a tactic that i frequently adopted for one of the fashion clients that i had in the past you can also segment by seasonality so maybe you're selling well christmas decorations or whatever maybe in that case you want to well create a seasonal campaign that you can push during the during the festive period nearing November, December, and maybe you want to run like a clearance campaign sale in January after all of the holiday days. You can also segment by inventory levels. So maybe you want to push less aggressively on products that are running out of stock. And maybe if they are running out of stock and you're not going to restock them, maybe you want to, well, really set low budget on them and bid less aggressively because they will get sold in the long run anyway. So why bother advertising on them? Well, that's the thing that you can consider segmenting by inventory levels. You can also segment by value. So segmenting by, well, the average order value or the product's value. Maybe you're selling cables for, well, mouses, but you're also selling monitors or desktop PCs well in that case you have wildly differing values and based on those values well you can also create segmentations maybe with different target ROAS or ROAS targets maybe with different budgets etc. You can also segment by performance which is really really popular and also really it works really well so I'm also going to elaborate on that tactic a lot and I'm also going to create a separate video that zooms in on the segment by performance because I think it's one of the more powerful segmentations currently available and lastly we have query level sculpting which is a OG tactic from back in the days but it still works in a couple of cases where you for example want to bid more aggressively on certain queries or query patterns and you can achieve this by while working with campaign priorities and negative keyword lists which is really technical and kind of hard to do but i will teach you how to do that and i will also teach you in what kind of circumstances it makes sense to do that so these are all the advanced segmentation tactics that we will go over in this particular video i've made sure to create one particular slide for every segmentation that tells you more about the why so why is it well important or why is it powerful to run this segmentation and it will also tell you a little bit about the how so what needs to be done in order to create that segmentation inside of google ads and once again for the more important and more impactful segmentations i will create a separate over the shoulder video that basically shows you the ui and how to set it up yourself. So let's go through them one by one. And let's start with the segmentation by category. So segmenting by category levels is a real easy segmentation to do, but yet it is really powerful. So why do you want to consider segmenting by category or even subcategory levels? Well, the first reason might be due to budgeting. Maybe you want to allocate budgets based on the performance and or specific business goals per category maybe you want to set different bid strategies or even different target targets like ROAS targets or CPA targets per different category or subcategory maybe based on your margins so let's say once again you're selling these these cables and you're selling mouses and you're selling desktops maybe those cables have a margin of like 80 percent but your desktop PCs have like a margin of 25 percent well based on those margins you already have wildly differing different break-even royalties and based on that and also the competition levels and the category or subcategory specific goals you might want to set more or less aggressive bids and if you separate well those product types or product categories in different campaign buckets you can basically achieve that you can set different budgets you can set different bid strategies and you can set different targets and lastly it also helps with doing a well granular analysis where you can analyze subcategory performances at a granular level without needing to run well specific reports instead of your google ads user interface or set up a looker dashboard where you need to segment based on the product type levels for example if you create a really granular category segmentation setup instead of your google ads account you can simply look at your campaign performances per per product category and underlying sub category and therefore also underlying products so how do you do this well once again this is really simple to set up but you need to have a proper product type attribute structure that reflects your subcategory segments so in the second module of this particular course i have elaborated on how to work with product type attribute and values extensively so if you want to look if you want to learn more about the best practices and what needs to be done in order to get like a proper product type attribute structure make sure to re-watch the product type attribute video because i'm going to tell you well exactly how to do this and what needs to be done in order to create a proper segmentation based on the product type attribute values then based on those product type attributes you want to create separate campaigns for mid to high volume product type categories and within those categories or within those campaigns so to say you want to create multiple ad groups and product groups for every underlying subcategory or maybe even brands and then lastly once your setup is complete and i will show you how to do this in a separate video you can set different bits different budgets per bucket so to say per product type segmentation based on for example performance data targets that needs to be set business goals you want to achieve etc etc so this is how a simple segmentation by category could look like so this is a campaign structure example where i'm running campaigns for a coffee webshop. So you can see different campaigns for, for example, portafilters or tampers. I've set separate budgets for those campaigns. I've set different ROAS targets for these campaigns because margins wildly differ. And I wanted to have like a quick and dirty and also simple setup to begin with. So this is really an interesting segmentation if you want to have a little bit more control per product category and if you want to get your shopping campaigns going. So what I like to do is I like to use this particular tactic in the early stages within an account because it is a really simple yet effective segmentation tactic to use. One thing that you want to keep in mind is that you do not want to over segment. So you want to keep your conversion volumes in check and therefore i often recommend to only segment mid to high volume categories product type so to say and create a rest segmentation for all of the lower volume categories because if you are going to segment all of your main categories or all of your underlying subcategories you might end up with a lot of segmentations where well just two less of volumes volumes run through and if you want to well if you want to use smart bidding like like target row as then that will eventually hurt the algorithm so therefore always segment out mid to high volume categories and create a rest bucket for all of the lower volume categories and then if you see volume picking up within certain underlying categories within the rest bucket then you can always, well, extract that category and create a new bucket slash segmentation for that particular category. So next up is bestsellers versus regular products. So this is also a really easy yet effective campaign structure that you can consider. And this is particularly interesting if you want to prioritize bestsellers, where you want to push your bestsellers over other products to increase roi you can also focus on high performers where you can optimize your efforts so well your your budgets but also your own efforts in terms of time and resource management to focus on top selling products instead of products that are well selling less frequently and lastly it is it leads to efficient inventory management where you where it leads to better management of high demand products. So it's really easy to set this up. You want to look at your sales data to identify bestsellers. You can either look for, well, sales data instead of your webshop platform. So let's say you're running on Shopify. Well, in that case, you can run product level reports to see what kind of products are bestselling products. For those products, you can create a custom label attribute with a value like bestseller. And for all the non bestsellers, you can essentially use a custom label like regular or something else. So you can identify bestselling products versus non bestselling products. And once you have that in place, you can then create separate campaigns for bestsellers and adjust campaign settings like bids and budgets accordingly. So this is a campaign structure that I currently run for one of my clients where I'm pushing best-selling minerals in one particular standard shopping campaign and I'm pushing regular products which are not best sellers into a different standard shopping campaign. So as you can see I'm able to allocate a higher budget towards best-selling products and in this particular case I'm running a slightly more aggressive ROAS target for the best-selling products versus the regular products in the other bucket and that basically helps you to well to run higher volumes to a bit more aggressively to gain a higher click share to gain a higher search impression share on the products that are really important to you and that are really selling well in terms of higher volumes so this is a really interesting tactic and yet also really simple to implement so here's a small tip so you can either choose to select your best-selling products manually by analyzing your products performance report inside of google ads over a very long date range so for example you can take a look at the last 12 months and sort from conversion volume high to low to see what kind of products are your best sellers and you can label those products by utilizing a custom label attribute or you can also determine your best sellers dynamically and that's what i personally like to do and you can do that by basically integrating the client's sales data to your feed management tool for example genable genable is the feed management tool that i personally use and also like to use in all of my cases and based on those well first party sales data and also google ad sales data you can populate a custom label attribute based on certain and these are going to be dynamic so based on well if a product becomes a bestseller it will receive a bestseller label but if it fails to well hit certain conversion volume thresholds and it's not a bestseller anymore then you will just label it as a regular product and that particular product will fall into a different campaign bucket like i've shown over here so i like to do things dynamically so i do not have to run manual analysis and therefore it's also more consistent and it's dynamically looking at every single data point every single day and i would well also recommend to you to do exactly that so then we have the third segmentation tactic which is products on sale versus products not on sale regular products so why do you want to consider a tactic like this well if you run sales the likelihood is it's it's higher you have a higher likelihood of converting visitors because you basically have better offers on the products that are currently on sale and maybe you can quite easily increase visibility for discounted items enhancing all of the promotional and it also helps in terms of visibility because well if you run a better price a more competitively more competitive price you will get pushed well harder by google automatically per default because the deal in essence is better and you're more competitive versus well your direct peers and if you are going to push them even harder in a separate sale campaign where you can definitely obtain well really interesting top performing placements instead of these search engine result pages so how do you do this well you basically have to populate a custom label attribute to differentiate sale items and products not on sale so it's quite simple to do that by using a feed management tool for example you can create a rule where you look at if a sale price value is present then that means that product is on sale if the sale price attribute is well empty then the product is not on sale and based on that information you can set a custom label either sale or regular really simple yet effective well once you have that in place you can create a separate campaign for products on sale and a separate campaign for products not on sale and you can target your sale products inside of your products on sale campaign and vice versa and based on well those two campaigns you can adjust campaign settings such as bids and budgets because maybe you want to be more aggressive on products that are currently on sale maybe you want to be less aggressive on products not on sale and maybe you want to also allocate your your budgets differently so if you have like 100 euros per day to spend maybe you want to allocate the 75 euros of that budget per day to all of your products on sale and the remaining 25 euros on your regular product depending on your business goals whatever so besides pushing products that are currently on sale by looking at whether or not the product has a sale price attribute in place you can also consider pushing products that are part of a google merchant center promotion right now so you can basically utilize feed labels for that as well and if certain promotional feed labels are present then you can also label the product with a sale value inside of a custom label attribute so you can also push products that have a coupon code right now or a quantity discount because you might want to push those products in a separate budget bucket as well then we have the fourth advanced segmentation tactic which is a segmentation by price competitiveness so this one is moderately hard because you need to have your data in place and that's the most challenging part in this particular with this particular tactic so why does it make sense to segment by price well the first reason is that you want to prioritize your cheapest products you want to show you want to show products first where you're absolutely sure that your product's price is cheaper than your competitors prices and based on that information you want to maybe adjust bids to reflect your price competitiveness so if you are active in a highly competitive vertical and i have a couple of clients that are active in a highly competitive vertical where you have a lot of different advertisers selling the same SKU or the same GTIN product well then you definitely want to well look at the price competitiveness and based on that information you want to well bid accordingly and you also want to allocate your budgets accordingly because if your product is similarly priced and ideally more competitively priced than your direct competitors and it's a product in high demand where you have high volumes then you want to push those kinds of products first within a separate separate well campaign bucket so to say so all of your budget is going to be allocated on that particular bucket first because products in that bucket are the most important to you because the likelihood of conversion is the highest. So how do you implement this particular tactic? Well first you have to use a price scraping tool to analyze your competitors pricing. This could be a first party tool that you can develop yourself. So I have one particular client that is using a custom made tool that has been made by one of their developers, where they're scraping all of their direct competitor stores, which run on Shopify. So they all run on Shopify. So they created a scraping tool that scrapes the product pages and the price element of those products, and then basically lock that inside of a database and based on those prices and their own prices they have created rules where they also utilize a dynamic pricing strategy and based on all of those data points i myself as a google s specialist can also create rules to populate particular custom labels but creating a custom tool well takes a lot of work it's a lot of effort and more often than not you need a developer in order to build that for you because, well, we're just simple Google S specialists and I'm no coding expert myself. But luckily there are also third-party tools like apps, plugins within Shopify, WooCommerce, Magento. So for example, within Shopify, you have a app called PriceMall that you can use in order to do dynamic pricing and price scraping. But you also have third-party standalone tools that do not scrape your competitors' data, but basically scrape platform data. So there's also a tool called Shopping Scraper that basically scrapes the Google Shopping SERP, where they basically look at all of the prices from competitors advertising on a particular product. Or they look at marketplaces like Amazon, or they look like localized marketplaces like bol.com, which is a very big marketplace within the Netherlands. and based on that information they can also well they can also see all of the competitor prices and based on that information you can also populate custom labels and create your strategy once you have that in place and that's sorted out you can then label and segment your products by for example cheaper more expensive or equal price and based on those labels you can create several separate buckets and in those buckets you can set different budgets, utilize different bidding strategies and or set different targets. And ideally you want to be more aggressive for products that are cheaper or equally priced because they tend to outperform products that are more expensive. So why focus on more expensive products that are less likely to convert very well? so why have your budget drained for those particular products instead of utilizing and allocating that to cheaper or equally priced products so here are a couple of tools that you can consider so this is for example a shopping scraper so over here i've inserted a well isolation related product which is really easy to compare so as you can see we have a couple of sellers from Isolatie Discounter, De Houtboer, De Isolatieshop, Slijderinke Bouwmaterialen, which are all Dutch, and you can see the prices of these particular products. And based on that information, you can then, well, decide if your product is, well, competitively priced or not. You also have, for example, the Product Hero Pricelizer, which is part of the pro suite inside of the product hero tool so next to the labelizer you can also use the price analyzer that basically allows you to also scrape the prices of your competitors and they will give you a well the actual price they will give you the benchmark price and they will give you the lowest price and based on that information you can also do sort of things with that for example create your pricing segmentation based on what you see over here so this works really well as well but you can also consider custom made pricing scrapers so this is the custom tool that a customer of mine has created where we're scraping dedicated dedicated competitors with similar visibilities that we are competing hard with inside of the auction and we basically scrape the price of all of the products daily and the tool will basically show us the difference in price and based on well the price of our competitors we can then also fire certain rules for example for example always match the the lowest price of one of our competitors while keeping our margin in check so we have like a limited we have like a set margin of like at least 15 percent that needs to be met and if we can lower the price based on the prices of our competitors while keeping that 15% minimum margin we will then also automatically lower the price and based on that information and the price versus the competitor competitor prices we will then also label our products with a custom label if it's cheaper equally priced or more expensive and based on that we can then create our campaign structures so this is how a price competitiveness segmentation could look like where you can segment well your products into two or three buckets for example one bucket for lowest price products which are cheaper one bucket for equally priced products and one bucket for higher price products based on the conversion volumes that you push monthly you can also consider well maybe combining equally priced products with higher priced products or equally priced products with lower priced products depending on the metrics that you see. This tends to work really well but you need to have your data warehouse in check. If you do not have a proper working price scraping tool which is highly dynamic then I would definitely not recommend a tactic like this and personally I would only run a structure like this in highly competitive verticals if you're selling products that are not being sold by anybody else or only by maybe one or two other competitors then a different campaign segmentation tactic might be more compelling to use so then we have the campaign segmentation tactic new products versus old products and this is a relatively easy campaign segmentation to to make and this is particularly interesting if you want to promote new arrivals where you want to boost the visibility and sales of new currently in demand products and where you want to for example maybe also want to clear out old inventory where you want to actively manage old or older stock effectively without overpaying and you can tailor well your your google ads strategies and tactics based on the full product life cycle stages the first two points are for are really interesting for me personally especially in verticals like fashion where you have different collections every single quarter where you need to also manage all the stock and you want to also boost new products that are currently in demand by well by products that by by customers that frequently shop your products because they all they're always waiting for new collections to drop so with this particular tactic you can use different tactics for for all of that so how do you do that well basically you want to tag products in your product feed based on their product life cycle stages so what you can do you can create and populate a custom label based whether or not a particular product is part of a newer collection or a old collection and for example what the collection release date was. So what I personally did, me and my client, my fashion client, we decided to populate a custom label with the season a particular product fell in. For example fall 2024 or summer 2024 or winter 2023 and based on that information i was able to create a a segmentation based on well the the values populated in those custom labels and that tends to work really well but it has to come from nine out of ten times from your webshop data so in order to make this work properly you need to tag your products with like well a new collection all the collection or maybe the the season a particular collection falls in like i just explained to you then once you have that data point in place you want to create separate campaigns for new and old products and maybe also additional building blocks so what you can also do is create well maybe three segmentations for example one new product bucket where you want to push your newer products more aggressively then a non-sale old products bucket with with products that are almost well out of stock and then lastly you might want to also create a third bucket with products currently on sale but with a very high stock where you want to maybe bid a little bit more aggressively on because you still have a lot of stock left versus sale products that have almost run out of stock so those are the additional building blocks the additional segmentations within this segmentation that you can also think about just to give you some ideas and then you just want to adjust your bids and budgets according to your strategy like i said already in case like this i want to be more aggressive on the newer collection and less aggressive on the sale collection because nine out of ten times at least for my client all of these sale related products get sold in the end so why bother advertising a lot of them and well basically diminishing your margins on your your sale products so especially in apparel new collections outperform older collections this is why you might want to prioritize your new collection over items in your new older collection nevertheless you still want to sell out on your older collections without overpaying and this is where the segmentation tactics tactic becomes really really useful so then we have the segmentation by seasonality and this particular segmentation is really interesting if you want to optimize all of your advertising efforts for peak season demand and you want to maximize sales during these high demand seasons so next to well optimize your advertising demands and your conversion volumes you can also do easier comparisons so by segmenting certain seasonal product categories it's also easier to see performance trends and do year of year comparisons and therefore i also like to segment my well seasonal products because i can then do easier well comparison and see easier performance trend shifts so how do you do this well you want to identify products with high seasonal demand in the first place and then once you manage to do that you want to create separate campaigns for different seasonal products or categories and you want to once again adjust your bids and budgets based on those seasonal trends and historical performance data so this is how a seasonal campaign structure could look like this is basically like a combination of of two particular tactics where i've created well a couple of seasonal campaigns based on well seasonal skincare products so we have after sun related products we also have sunscreen related products that i wanted to segment in a separate bucket because well those products are in high demand during the summer obviously and then demand diminishes so I decided to segment them in a separate campaign and I also decided to do query sculpting instead of these particular campaigns because I saw that brand and product related queries outperformed regular product queries like after sun or sunscreen prices heavily so if people were searching for nifea sunscreen 50 plus for example those types of queries converted like crazy but the generic queries didn't in comparison to a product and brand related queries and therefore I also incorporate a query sculpting tactic so this is like a double structure combined so seasonal plus query sculpting tactic and for the other skincare related products I just had a performance based tactic that I will touch on in a bit as well because all of the other skincare products were not seasonal and I didn't have a good reason to segment them with a query sculpt tactic for example so you can combine different tactics together although more often than not it doesn't make sense but in this particular case i just want to give you an example about what i did over here and with what reasoning so the why's behind this particular setup just to give you just to give you some ideas about what's possible and how you can leverage different tactics to achieve your particular well ideal scenarios and to achieve your business goals so seasonal campaigns can truly help focus your attention and advertising efforts on the most important products and or categories during peak demand seasons and once peak season is over for particular segments and volume drops you can consider pausing your seasonal campaigns and include these products back in your foundational structure for example a performance-based structure so just to give you an idea once summer is to its end and i see search volume dropping i see conversion volumes dropping and they fall below a certain thresholds i simply pause these campaigns and i make sure to include all of the underlying products into my foundational performance-based structure and have it run for all of the well remaining seasons until it's starting to get summer again then i will just activate this particular segmentation once again and i do it over and over and over again unless in between i think a different structure makes more sense but that's always up to debate and you always have to review your your current tactics so yeah that's how i do it for this particular case. Then we have segmentation by inventory levels. So you can also segment by inventory levels to prevent over-advertising on low stock and or almost out of stock items. And at the same time, you can also focus on products with sufficient stock and or sufficient product variants like available sizes and or available colors, like the t-shirt example I gave you in the beginning of this particular lesson and this often leads to a higher ROI because well if you advertise on products that are in stock with a lot of variants available and you focus your efforts on those kinds of products versus products running out of stock like well I only have like one exact exotic size available like extra extra large with a lower conversion rate well in that case obviously the roi will be higher on the product with a lot of variance available so in that case you want to focus and allocate your budgets over there and you can do so by segmenting on inventory levels so how do you do this well you need to track your inventory levels constantly then based on certain inventory level thresholds you want to start segmenting your products into different categories for example high stock medium stock low stock by utilizing custom labels a custom label between zero and custom label four and then depending on your structure your tactic you want to create your campaign segmentations so for example you can create a inventory level specific campaign bucket to increase bottom line roi or you can also create an additional campaign on top of your foundational layer to increase click share and source impression share for high inventory items so maybe you just have a couple of products inside of your product stock that have a lot of stock levels and your stakeholder calls you hey man i need to get rid of these products well in that case you can also build a building block on top of for example your performance-based foundational structure with all of your high stock items that you want to clear out as soon as possible. So there are different structures and different tactics that you can think about in this particular case as well, just to give you some examples. So here's exactly a campaign structure example that I just mentioned. So here is a performance-based structure, which is my foundational structure with my heroes and sidekicks separated by utilizing the product hero labelizer tool then i have a villain bucket and a zombie bucket on top of that i have an inventory building block slash segmentation and these are all products with crazy amounts of stock levels that my client wanted to get rid of so we just we just decided to well instead of creating a whole different campaign segmentation tactic we just create one additional building block add in all of the high stock items over there allocate a specific budget to them a bit more aggressively to push them a little bit more aggressively in inside of the auction because we just wanted to get volumes for those kinds of products because well advertising was less expensive than well throwing the products away or run a really aggressive sale on them to clear out the stock just to give you an example then almost there we have the segmentation by value so this is also a really easy segmentation if you want to focus on for example high value products where you can allocate more budget to products with a higher value and therefore also a higher profitability or hopefully a higher profitability in that case you can also well efficiently use your resources based on your product's value and lastly increase your bottom line roi because a higher focus on valuable products can lead to better returns how can you do this well you can categorize products based on their product's price slash their value for example based on the price value inside of your feed management tool you can then set different thresholds for example if price is higher than 750 euros then the value inside of your custom label must be set to high if it's between 500 euros and 750 euros the value could be medium and if it's below 500 euros you can set the value to low just to give you an example then based on those values you can create separate campaigns for every single value segment and adjust bits and budgets accordingly to for example focus more on high value products. So among all of the segmentation tactics out there this segmentation tactic is personally my least favorite segmentation out there because well the core reason to be completely honest is that I haven't seen this tactic outperform a performance-based structure that I'm going to talk about in the next couple of minutes in any of the accounts that I managed previously or still manage or audited in the past. And besides that, I do not really believe in this particular segmentation tactic. And that is due to the fact that products that are getting clicked on inside of the search engine result page aren't always the products that people eventually purchase. And therefore, well, the value of the product that is being clicked on can be completely different than the value of the product that could be could be bought for example if people click on this particular mouse and the value of this product is high just to give you an example but they end up buying just this particular cable well then that complete structure doesn't make any sense because the conversion will eventually get attributed to the product that was clicked on and that is really important to to keep in mind and to know so yeah that's why i also do not have a campaign structure example because i do not run these kinds of campaign segmentations but i do want to mention it because sometimes for some people for some situations they might make sense and some google ad specialists like to use this particular campaign segmentation so therefore I included this within the advanced segmentation tactics out there then let's continue with the last two advanced segmentation tactics and the and this one is maybe one of the most popular ones and also one of the most well converting the best converting ones out there where you can really achieve a couple of goals and I will elaborate on that in a bit and that is segmenting by performance also called performance-based segmentations so it is moderately hard to set this up yourself because you need tooling you need scripts in order to make this work but if you manage to get that work then while setting this campaign structure setting it up yourself is relatively easy to do and then optimization and management is also relatively easy to do, but the setup phase is relatively hard, especially if you haven't done this before. So why does it make sense to run a performance-based segmentation? Well, the first reason is to prioritize high performance, where you want to maximize returns by focusing on your top performing products. You also want to deprioritize poor performing products that are uh well cost drainers you want to save ads sorry you want to save ad spend by cutting down on poor performing products and lastly you also want to awaken sleeping products you want to awaken products that hardly get any impressions or clicks wake them up because they might convert very well but google isn't giving them um the chance to well to to get any visibility inside of the search engine result page so you might want to push them and see what happens in terms of conversion volume instead of profit etc so how do you do this well you want to dynamically label products based on their historical performances by using by using a well labelizer tool and right now there are a couple of labelizer tools available it has become a really popular and widely adopted tactic or you can also utilize scripts if you do not want to use a tool for example because of cost reasons in terms of tools you can for example consider product hero labelizer which is the og tool when it comes down to performance-based segmentation you can also consider utilizing profit metrics shopping booster if you are already doing profit tracking by utilizing profit metrics if you do not know what profit tracking is and why it makes sense to do that then i would highly recommend you to head over to our conversion tracking mastery course and look for the profit metrics related lessons and if you're using profit metrics the performance based labelizer called the shopping booster within their tool is free to use so in that case why would you want to pay for Product Hero if the tool is already integrated within a tool that you're already utilizing for profit tracking, for example. And lastly, you can also consider a tool like Channable, where you can also create dynamically created rules to label your products based on their performances. Instead of tools, you can also consider utilizing scripts like the flow boost labelizer they have a free version and they have a one-time pro version that also can be interesting to use if you are looking for more flexibility and maybe well you want to only you do not want to pay for a subscription like for a tool in that case the script might be interesting for people that are on a budget so once you have done that you need basically a supplemental feed containing the performance labels of all of your products and you need to send that over to your google motion center account and then once those performance labels are in place by utilizing a custom label once again you can then segment your products in different performance buckets inside of your google ads structure so let's quickly elaborate on why this is so important to do and why it makes sense to run a performance-based segmentation and therefore why it is also being so widely adopted across the Google Ads scene. It's good to keep in mind that I will elaborate on this particular tactic in a separate video where I will give you some more theory about how this works and then I also will record at least three over-the-shoulder videos on how to set this up by utilizing different tools and or scripts so over here you see a google sheet screenshot of the flow boost performance labelizer which is a script so they work with different performance buckets where index are high volume good converting products as you can see a lot of cost a lot of conversions and a proper ROAS which is a POAS over here then they have a near index bucket so those are good converting products but they have a lower volume in terms of clicks in terms of conversions and then you have under index products which are essentially cost drainers so as you can see a lot of costs are being allocated to 93 under index so poor performing products where the POAS is below one and a POAS of one equals breakeven. So yeah, this particular client is losing a lot of money on underperforming products. And then also you have a no index bucket, which means that these kinds of products, which are 948, which are a lot, are not really driving enough impressions and enough conversions so you might want to push them in a separate bucket to wake them up so based on these indexes based on these buckets you might want to create different structures and here is the same screenshot visualized once again so we have almost 75 percent no index products so we have a lot of zero impression products that we need to wake up in terms of revenue almost all revenue comes from index and near index products so since we're doing profit tracking over here revenue equals a gross profit but if you look at the cost the index and the near index bucket well accounts for like 55 60 percent ish of all of the costs being made while well the gross profit is close to 90% coming from those two buckets. So you can see that the no index and the under index bucket is making a lot of costs and therefore it is well impacting our gross and net profit negatively and we might want to account for that by utilizing a performance-based structure so if you were to look at the product level you can even see that well some products are heavily underperforming so these are all of the product ids sorted by let's see i think it was sorted by cost high to low yes cost high to low you can see that for example this particular product on the row number four made a lot of cost drove a couple of conversions but these conversions were all bottom line had a negative roi because once again we're doing poas over here a poas below one equals a net loss everything above that is profitable so in that case we might want to well take them apart and make sure that these kinds of products do not overspend in terms of the full picture so we so we might want to well make this we want to maybe cut down on that spend a little bit more and that will impact or a net profit positively so that's what you can do with a performance-based structure so product hero was the first once again the og when it comes down to effective performance-based segmentation and therefore or in this lesson and in the separate videos that will come after this particular lesson i will take product heroes naming convention as a well as a baseline so product hero basically came up with four different bucket naming conventions we have heroes sidekicks villains and zombies so the heroes are often less than 10 percent of your products that generate 80 percent or more of your revenue and with the right strategy you can turn these into well your superheroes basically sidekicks are products that aren't doing really well or sorry are doing well in terms of conversions and in terms of ROAS or POAS but they are a little bit low on volume so with the right strategy you want to turn these sidekicks into heroes where they can also drive a lot of volume then you have billions billions are well products that are underperforming products where you want to definitely be cutting your spend on so if you set them apart well minimize your budget allocation to them you can save a lot of money and allocate your budget to heroes and sidekicks to make your account more profitable and then you have zombies where over 60% of your products hardly get any impressions or clicks and well with this particular strategy you can bring them back to life and you can give them a give them a chance to well perform really well so the goal of this particular structure is to activate your zombies so your zero impression products and leveling up your sidekick products to heroes while shifting costs from billions to heroes to boost bottom line efficiency that's essentially what you want to achieve with this particular structure and this is how a campaign structure example could look like so this is a campaign structure example from one of miles's accounts where he made a well segmentation for heroes sidekicks villains and zombies and he also created a fallback campaign just to make just to be sure that if his segmentation breaks for whatever reason he still has a fallback campaign below that and you can see that this particular structure does wonders in terms of budget allocation conversion volume and well the ROAS in this particular case so it really makes sense to use a structure like this to well once again activate your zero impression products level up sidekick products to your heroes and make them superheroes in the end while also cutting down on cost on your cost drainers and to allocate your budget towards heroes and also sidekicks to improve efficiency and i will tell you more about performance segmentation tactics in a more in-depth video that will give you some more theory and some more context about how this works and why this structure is so powerful in a separate video after this one. Then lastly, I want to end up with query-level sculpting. And query-level sculpting is one of the OG tactics inside of especially standard shopping that was basically introduced, I think, all the way back in 2014 by a guy called martin and he found a way to basically take back control over your search terms inside of your shopping campaigns and the bits that are set on the query level so the problem with shopping mainly is that you can only set bits on the product level and not on the query level because google decides on well the queries that are getting matched to your particular products But sometimes you have wildly different, well, conversion rates and ROASs based on certain query intents, certain queries, or even certain query patterns. And you might want to adjust your bits based on the actual query performance and not on the product performance. And with query-level sculpting, you can do exactly that. And that will help you to improve efficiency by, for example, prioritizing high converting queries over low converting queries so i have also created a separate video about query level sculpting because it's a harder more technical tactic that requires a lot of more well explanation and context so if you want to know more about this particular tactic make sure to watch the query level sculpting specific video that you can find in this module as well but let me quickly explain to you how this works so you want to utilize campaign priority levels which are either high medium low in combination with negative keyword lists in order to route queries to the appropriate campaign where you can then set and this will all make sense in a bit when i'm going to elaborate more about this particular sculpting tactic it's important to know that you need to use the campaign priority setting in order to make this work and the campaign priority setting is only available inside of the standard shopping campaign type it's not available in performance max therefore if you want to do query sculpting you can only do so by utilizing standard shopping and you cannot use performance max because performance max lacks the priority settings so this is for example a well query level that i've utilized before and i've also touched on this in the seasonal segmentation tactic example because it's a combination of the two so as you can see i've created multiple segmentations i have three layers for after sun and sunscreen where I have a product layer, a brand layer, and a catch-all layer. And I want to bid more aggressively on product-related queries where the query basically includes the brand name and the product because if people are searching for a particular product, they are, well, deep down in the funnel and the likelihood of getting a conversion is really high and oftentimes you want to bid more aggressively on those types of queries then in the second layer i have brand related queries where i want to bid well a little bit less aggressively than product related queries because they only include like the brand name like nifea after sun because people are well somewhere in the middle of the funnel they know that they want to buy nifea after sun but not particular a particular product they do not have a particular product in mind because they haven't included that inside of the query so i want to bid a little bit less aggressively than a product long tail query but i do want to bid more aggressively than the catch all slash generic queries and that is the last layer and this is basically the last layer that contains all of the generic queries where people are looking for well basically non-brand and non-product related queries like a generic query like buy after sun or after sun prices which is a little bit well on the top of the middle of the funnel or even top of the funnel because they do not know about the brand they are looking for and they do not know about a particular product so according to the query pattern and the query funnel so to say you can then allocate different budgets and you can set different bits and this can be really interesting if you see really varying performances across across different query intent levels so i will tell you more about the query sculpting tactic in a more in-depth video where it will make way more sense than what i have explained to you just now. And once again, it's really a technical tactic. It's a hard one to set up. It's also a harder one to maintain. So therefore it requires a lot of more explanation. So let's recap about what we went through in this particular lesson just to, well, to refresh a bit. So we can either segment by category, which is really interesting if you are just starting out and you want to have a basic segmentation where you want to allocate different budgets different bits for several mid to high volume categories or underlying subcategories really interesting and a tactic i often use in the early stage of a new google ads account that i manage then you have best sellers versus regular where you can push best selling products over well your regular products because maybe you want to bin more aggressively on best-selling products so they will obtain a higher click share and a higher search impression share and maybe if you are on a limited budget you want to allocate your limited budget to your best-selling products instead of your well non-bestsellers then you can also segment by products on sale versus not on sale can also be interesting in a couple of cases especially if you want to be more aggressive on products that are really attractively priced right now and are the cheapest inside of the market. Well, you can really dominate the search engine result page with really high rankings if you bid more aggressively on products that are competitively priced and have a really relatively high bid. You can also segment by price competitiveness, especially important for highly competitive verticals like the example I've showed you in the vitamin mineral vertical where people are selling the same product in the same, well, market. So we have to really compete on price because yeah, you're just receiving the same amount of vitamins in the same amount of capsules or well, droplets, whatever. And you can either buy the same product at retailer A, B, C, or D. People are just going to be looking for, well, the cheapest result out there. So you only want to push aggressively on products that are competitively priced where the products are cheaper or at least equally priced and you do not want to push products that are well not so competitively priced and more expensive than your direct peers then for fashion you can also segment by new versus old products for example new collection versus older collection makes sense in a lot of cases you can also segment by seasonality for example if you are seeing a high demand in a particular season like the summer where you might be selling a lot of after sun and a lot of sunscreen well in the summer you might want to segment those product types into a separate campaign so you can well keep a close eye on how they perform on the the trend shift you can even allocate different budgets different bids to those kinds of segments and then once the season is over you just pause the segment and obtain the products back into your foundational campaign which could be a performance-based campaign or a simple segment by category campaign whatever you like segmentation by inventory levels is also a really interesting one especially if your inventory levels vary a lot and you see wildly fluctuating results based on well the available variants per product or the inventory levels that you have segmentation by value can also be considered once again i'm not a fan of this one i think there are way better segmentation tactics out there than this one then we have the really popular and widely adopted segmentation by performance or performance-based segmentation I'm going to dive deeper into this as well because I think it's one of the better ones to be considered and lastly we have a really tactical one and a really hard one to set up into a manage which is the og query level sculpting tactic where you can essentially bid more or less aggressively based on queries or query patterns based on the buying intent behind certain queries which is really interesting and really cool to set up to to set up as well and i will also zoom in on the query level sculpting tactic in a separate video as well because it needs some more context so next to all of these segmentations that we went over in over an hour there are many more segmentations to consider but they but these are the most popular ones that we just went through so if you want to consider a advanced segmentation start with these first but keep in mind that choosing the right tactic really comes down to your unique situation and your specific business goals so i would like to conclude this lesson with a couple of remarks and then we will continue to a couple of in-depth videos for a couple of popular and interesting advanced segmentation ideas that we just went over. But let's start and end with the closing remarks. It's really important to know that there is no one size fits all segmentation tactic out there. You really need to use your own brains and really decide for yourself based on your business goals, based on the things you want to achieve, which segmentation tactic might be the most applicable for your unique case. You need to find a structure or a tactic that aligns with your particular business strategy. And that is really important. Oftentimes people just start segmenting. They just, well, start segmenting out bestsellers versus non-bestsellers or sale products versus non-on-sale products without having a clear goal in mind. So use your head and think before you think before you act then most of the time you can only use one segmentation tactic at the time there are well there are cases where this might not be the case for example one of the examples i showed you i combined a seasonal tactic with a query sculpting tactic but most of the time you want to stick with one particular segmentation tactic at the time in order to to keep a good overview of what you're doing instead of an account and what a particular tactic is doing with your results especially if you're a beginner or if you're just starting out with shopping or advanced segmentations you want to experiment with one tactic at a time if you're getting more seasoned if you know what you're doing then you can start combining tactics or even running multiple tactics at the same time for example in the example i showed you i was running a foundational performance-based structure for basically all of my skincare products but then for two particular product types which were highly seasonal sunscreen and after sun i created a query sculpting seasonal campaign for those in order to maximize the output for those highly seasonal types but that is a really unique case just to give you an idea so if you think more than one tactic might be applicable to your situation right now give them all a try so do not stick with one particular tactic but give all of the tactics that might be applicable and might be relevant for your unique case, try to see how they work and how they react in your account. And then lastly, you want to often review your current tactic because business strategies can change, business goals can change, and well, objectives can also change. So make sure to regularly look for what you have been doing as of now. And if certain things change, your segmentation tactic might need to be adapted to that new situation. So with this all said, I want to end this relatively long lesson, but I hope you find it insightful. In the next couple of lessons, I will do a deep dive into a couple of really popular and impactful segmentations. So I hope to see you in those next few lessons. See ya.
