# How to create a Performance Max Feed-only campaign

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** performance-max-shopping-mastery
- **Section:** Module 4: Campaign structure
- **Duration:** 19:23
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

In the previous over the shoulder video, I showed you how to set up a really simple standard shopper campaign targeting two product types, t-shirts and hoodies. Well, in this particular example, I'm doing exactly the same thing, but now we're going to choose a different campaign type, which is performance max. Within performance max, you can either create a full asset campaign or a feed only campaign. And in this particular example, I'm going to show you how to create a feed only PMAX campaign. So let's start. So let's start by hitting new campaign. From here, I like to select create a campaign without a goals guidance. Then we want to click performance max. Make sure to, well, that your account level goal is selected right and that your conversion action is active. And over here, you want to select the correct Merger Center account that you have linked before. So now we want to hit continue. Over here we want to input a Max campaign name, feed only like so, based on whatever you like in your own naming conventions. Then we want to hit continue and that will bring us to the, well, a couple of campaign level settings. So PMAX is heavily automated. So you cannot start off with a manual bid strategy. You can either go for maximized conversions or maximized conversion value. I like to go for conversion value because this lets you select the set a target return on ad spend later on. So if you select conversions, that will mean that if you want to select a official target later on, then in this particular bid strategy, which is maximized conversions, you can only go for a target CPA but if you go for conversion value and then later on you want to set a target ROAS which is I think the more suitable bid strategy for e-commerce players then you can simply hit this checkbox and set a target ROAS. I do not like to set a target ROAS from the very first start because this is a new campaign without any historical data therefore smart bidding will have a very hard time setting the correct bits if you're going to well insert a target ROAS from your very first start so I like to go for max conversion value which is just this setup in the very first very first period and then once you get some conversion data in you see what your average ROAS is then you can gradually start experimenting and selecting a target ROAS with a target that is close to your Average ROAS and then work your way towards your actual target. So that's what we're going to do right now. We're going to go for conversion value, which is maximize conversion value. Customer acquisition, you can select if you want to optimize for new customers only. This is not something you want to do in most cases initially. So I'm going to skip this step and hit next then we want to go to countries so i am targeting the netherlands for my google merch center products as you can see i've added my feed and i've targeted the country the netherlands i only ship to the netherlands in this imaginary example and therefore i'm only wanting to target people inside of the netherlands so the language that my customers speak is Dutch there we go since my website is in Dutch and my product details are also in Dutch I only want to target people that actually speak Dutch I do not want to also target people that well understand English and might not understand Dutch so sometimes I see people adding English next to their core language as well but I think this is not the best practice because well if your product feed is in Dutch your website is in Dutch and you're targeting people that speak English and not necessarily Dutch then I think chances of converting are relatively low so if you want to target English-speaking people inside of the Netherlands I think it's the best practice to well translate your feed make sure that you have an english final url and then in a separate campaign you can target well people in the same target country but then speaking a different language so that's how i would go about that some people might disagree but that's my personal well best practice so i'm going for dutch make sure since this is going to be a feed only campaign or a PLA-only campaign to uncheck the automatically created assets. Because if you check these options, you are going to let PMAX create assets outside of the product listing ads. For example, also display ads, search ads, maybe even videos. And that will mean that you will start advertising with automatically created assets into different networks besides shopping as well. and since we only want to target product listing ads in this particular performance max spieler only campaign you do not want to do that so make sure to uncheck these then lastly you can check the more settings this is something i generally skip this is something that could be really important to you so for this imaginary example i am not going to exclude my own brand because obviously we are going to start advertising on our own merch products and I want people to search for well PPC Mastery t-shirt, PPC Mastery hoodies. So I want to include branded searches and also exclude well generic searches because chances are that they won't convert at all but that's a unique situation. In your situation you might definitely want to exclude your brand name especially if you are focused on, well, mainly generic non-branded terms, and you want to create a branded fallback campaign for people that do search on your brand. Because, well, I'm going to highlight that in a separate video in this module as well. If people tend to search on your brand, then chances of converting are really, really high. Costs per sales are really, really low. Average rollouts will be really, really high. And if you're going to start advertising with a PMAX campaign and you're going to utilize target ROAS, then target ROAS might be really simple to hit for standard shopping, BMX or whatever campaign type. If Google is allowed to convert on those branded queries as well, that's going to dilute performance. It's going to bid too aggressively on non-branded queries because Google is using the very good results of your branded queries to bid well more aggressively on non-brand queries and therefore you want to exclude non-branded branded versus branded in a lot of cases so yeah i'm going to to to devote a separate video about that particular topic as well so make sure to check that out for now i'm going to not exclude any brands over here but make sure that you do this if this is in fact important for you so now I want to hit next and since we are going to create a feed only or PLA only performance max campaign you want to skip asset creation so as you can see this is the new generative AI tool where Google can help you generate assets from headlines to description lines etc you can create a prompt so google can create well good headlines description lines based on your usps benefits and whatever but we do not want any search ads we do not want any display ads and we also definitely do not want any video ads so therefore i'm going to skip this and i'm going to leave the assets empty and since you're going to leave the assets empty google is only going to look at the products that you have added to your performance max campaign and it will only deliver your ads instead of the well shopping network and it's not going to advertise on search display video whatever so that's what we're going to do right now asset groups can be seen as ad groups so what i want to do i want to create two asset groups for one for t-shirts and one for hoodies with the underlying products. And that will let me create better reports, make my structure a little bit more detailed and professional. So I'm going to go for t-shirts first, and then we can immediately target the underlying products. So in standard shopping, this is called product groups. In Performance Max, this is called listing groups. they are essentially the same just a different naming convention so we're going to hit all products then we want to select use a selection of products since we have populated the product type in a very structured way i want to select product type and from here i only want to select and target t-shirts with four underlying product variants with different sizes so i'm going to save that keep in mind that you're not not done yet from this particular step and i'm going to show you why in a later step over here you have your asset creation part this is something that you can completely skip because if you're going to add your funny url headlines long headlines description lines images whatever you are in fact allowing bmax to use those assets for well different networks like youtube gmail search display discover and we do not do we we do not want to do that we only want to add products like you can see over here for the shopping section so skip this part do not add anything then you can continue to signals and also audience signals this is completely useless so what i see people do when they create performance max feed only campaigns they will add search themes and audience signals in order to well provide google with signals about the people that you ideally want to search that you want to target but this only helps google to target the right people inside of mostly upper funnel networks like display youtube discover and since we're only targeting products over here and we're only targeting well a product listing ads inside of the well search slash shopping network google is already seeing the information inside of the product attributes just like how standard shopping works so google basically looks at all of the product attributes inside of our feed and then based on the product data and the product attributes google is going to search for appropriate queries based on the product data so this is completely useless so do not waste your time adding search themes adding audience signals this is only relevant if you are going to set up a full asset performance message campaign where you're also going to add in assets where you're also going to target different networks like youtube gmail search display discover but since that since that is not what we're going to do and want we're going to skip these steps so hit next then set up your budget we just go for 10 euros just for the sake of examples then we have to confirm this is in fact us we have to do this way too often nowadays so i'm going to also confirm this is me on my mobile phone like so and there we go now we verified this is in fact me wanting to create this campaign so google can start earning money and now google is checking for errors instead of your setup so now we have to wait a little until they are done checking the setup all right there we are the campaign is checked for errors and now we can finally publish the campaign. If you have any errors or if you have any issues going beyond this step, I recommend you to switch back and forth. So click budget and then go back to summary. Sometimes that helps to speed up the process. So over here you can see a summary of all of the things that you have selected. So the campaign type is performance max, the goals purchases. We have selected maximize conversion value as a bidding strategy without a target ROAS just yet because we want to gather some data first. The location targeting is the Netherlands. Language is Dutch. We have not enabled automatically created assets because if we do we will start advertising in different networks beside the shopping network. The asset group name is t-shirts. We have added the t-shirts as a listing group. We're going to double check that and create some iterations to that in a bit. no assets have been created and this is really important to triple check if you want to run a performance max feed only or pla only campaign and we have not provided any search themes or audience signals because that is a waste of your time if you're running this particular campaign type then we can publish the campaign so let's hit publish and now the campaign should be good to go so if we head over to campaigns you will see your newly created campaign over here so if you want to check your asset groups you can now head over to asset groups since we are inside of our campaign you will see your newly created asset group over here no signals have been provided also no assets have been provided apart from filtered products so now we want to head over to listing groups and these are the underlying product groups within this asset group so hit listing groups and that will bring you to your well your your created filter in the setup so as you can see we have now filtered t-shirts and i want to create a additional subdivision over here because i would also like to subdivide based on items so i can see the results on a deeper level on the item level as well so you want to save that and now you can see all of the results on a deeper level as well you can also bring in different conversion metrics conversions cps conversion value row as so all of the metrics can be seen on the product level i'm going to enable this everything else in t-shirts because if i'm going to add new t-shirts then they will automatically be included within this catch all segmentation and i definitely want to exclude everything else outside of the first segmentation or subdivision which is t-shirts because otherwise i'm going to target well for example hoodies as well so now we're not done yet i want to finalize the campaign with a second asset group and that is hoodies so i'm going to add a new asset group i'm going to call i'm going to skip asset generation i'm going to call this hoodies then select the products inside of the listing groups go to all products then use a selection of products select your dimension could be either brand product type or maybe a custom label that you have used to populate certain values but this is fine for now I'm going to select hoodies save assets are going to be left empty there we go we're not going to provide any signals and we're going to save this particular asset group as well so now we have a second asset group for our hoodies and now we're going to go to listing groups inside of the hoodie asset group and now we're going to subdivide this even further based on item ids there we go make sure to include everything else inside of hoodies for the same reason i just told you oops and we want to make sure to exclude everything else in in all products so now we're essentially done creating our structure. The reason why I like to create multiple asset groups with separate underlying listing groups is for, well, a better structure, better reporting, better analysis. And you can also go over to table over here that I do often. And over here, you can have a, well, higher overview, just like within the standard shopping campaign ad group level results to see the asset group level results and that is preventing you to go all the way to underlying listing groups to see how certain well product types or product groups are doing on a more consolidated level so that's why i like to create separate asset groups as well if you're going to analyze results the table view is way more easy to use than the summary because this doesn't show you any results but table view does so this is how you set up a performance max feed only campaign really simple inside of this particular campaign we have now targeted all of the underlying products that we have subdivided into s groups and then the underlying listing groups so we're good to go once google has finished checking and reviewing all of our products so with that i want to end the video and see you in a next video.
