# Case study: how we fixed a broken pMax campaign

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** performance-max-shopping-mastery
- **Section:** Bonuses
- **Duration:** 07:39
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

all right in this video i'm gonna show a case study of how we fixed a broken performance max campaign by creating effective diagnoses and mike rhodes spend allocation script was really important here so let me just briefly introduce the case so about the client this was a client who only has eight product categories of which two major and only like a hundred skews or product id So not nothing too complex. Campaign structure was two major product categories split up into separate PMAX campaigns, and we were also running search display video and discovery campaigns next to these. Now the problem that existed was that we were running full-on performance max with all of the assets, but the results started to decrease on one major product category, which I'll show you here. so all of a sudden in the in over here you can see that the red line the spend all of a sudden started to increase like boom like crazy and as a result we saw the green line ROAS decrease so the goal here was a ROAS of 2.5 or 250 percent but all of a sudden we were hitting that before but all of a sudden we see a huge spike in in costs while the ROAS started to decrease so then i went into the micro spend allocation script and i saw that all of a sudden we had a huge increase of spend on video placements so that didn't convert well so what we then did was okay we now see that full-on performance max is not working for this product category because we see a lot of spend on video which is not converting okay let's switch back to a feed only campaign structure, which we did here. And the initial response is positive because the goal was to bring the spend back down and the ROAS back up and get more control with the feed only structure. So initially we saw a 43% decrease in spend and a 10% increase in ROAS, as you see here, like a minor, minor increase, but we were still performing below target and the performance started to go down again. So we were still not happy with the results. So then I went back in and checked for more things and did a new diagnosis. And what I saw is that we saw a lot of mismatching and waste on search terms. And I cannot really say anything about the client or the product, but we did see that there were a lot of mismatches on the search terms that I do understand why PMAX was matching them because they were similar to the product but they were actually completely different in reality. So for the algorithm it seemed similar but in reality for customers it was something completely different. So then the solution that we thought of is okay if PMAX is not working for this product category and we want to get more grip on our search terms for to exclude why don't we go back to standard shopping and then boom you see the impact here was the first week the ROAS was about the same but then after excluding a lot of mismatched search terms the ROAS started to increase again and as a final result we saw less waste more control the ROAS went up 66 percent and we were performing above target again so the target was 2.5 now we're at 2.94 which was a lot better for this client and yeah the conclusion and the key takeaways here is that performance max is definitely definitely not set and forget you need to constantly keep your finger on the pulse to monitor your performance you need to clear a clear create a clear diagnosis whenever a campaign is not performing well and you need to find your weak spots and create an action plan to optimize them and that's exactly what we did we looked beyond only changing our targets and that's what you need to do as well and you fix a broken campaign by systematically diagnosing and tweaking it and in my opinion it's totally okay to revert back to standard shopping if that is what's needed and if that's what it takes and especially in this case that is that is what it what it took to to get it back to performing well so the most important levers to turn are your offer your campaign structure your products your search term your assets, bid strategies, targets, and budget. So in this case, you saw, and this is why I always say that there's no one size fits all strategy because sometimes performance max with all of the assets works really well. But for this specific client with this specific product category, it was working well up until we saw such a huge increase in spend on the video network, which was really unnatural and then even on feed only didn't work well because we saw a lot of weird irrelevant search terms being matched and then yeah the solution was going back to standard shopping and it and it turned out to work really well so if your performance max campaign is not working well ask yourself these questions to diagnose the situation and create a hypothesis of why your campaign isn't performing well so question number one are your offers good enough indication your offer isn't good enough high amount of clicks and or low ctr and low conversion rates number two where was the budget spent so here you can look at the spend allocation script and look at the channels placements products search terms etc number three on which networks are you are you spending your budget again use my growth spend allocation script are you pushing the right products if not do you need to exclude product ids or does it make sense to change your campaign structure? Are your ROAS targets set up correctly or a CPA for using that? Then continued. Number six, are your budgets set up correctly? Are your assets causing underperformance? Do you need to optimize your product feed? Is there a lot of waste in your search term insights? Are your settings optimized? E.g. location targeting, finding URL expansion, etc. So these questions will really help you on your way to diagnose whether or not you should change your performance Max campaign and where you can optimize. And for us, in this case, we saw that it was a matter of search term mismatches, assets causing underperformance, or actually the placements itself. And we saw that through this Mike Rose spend allocation script with the increase in video placement spend. And these questions will really help you diagnose your situation and create hypothesis and then you can go in and see okay this is what's broken right now that's what we need to fix instead of throwing everything at the wall and hoping that it will stick so yeah hopefully this case study this short case study gives you some insights in how i use the spend allocation script and especially how i've used it to fix a broken campaign so sometimes the answer is not running performance max and you need to stay on top of your data so in this case in this category in this product category for this specific client we concluded that performance max is not the right fit at least full-on performance max at this stage even feed-only performance max didn't drive the results that we wanted to see and then boom standard shopping actually did it for us so that's the key takeaway sometimes it's okay to not run pmax and always create effective diagnosis and act based on data so hopefully this case study was useful and see you later
