# Lead Gen Differences between B2C and B2B

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** performance-max-shopping-mastery
- **Section:** Bonuses
- **Duration:** 08:13
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

Hey, what's up and welcome to the next video. In this video, we're going to zoom in on the differences for PMX between B2C and B2B, business to consumer and business to business. So let's start off with Performance Max for B2C lead gen. And this is also applied for, well, SaaS companies that focus on business to consumer. So Performance Max campaigns tend to work extremely well for business to consumer clients and this is because there is generally a lot of volume and a lot of conversion volume to capture and therefore you can properly instruct the algorithm where to optimize towards the algorithm has a lot of conversion data to to to capture that they can use as a signal to know where your ideal customers are are coming from and where they're hanging out what kind of searches they're using and they also have google has also a lot of signals other signals about all of these consumers to quickly learn what works and what doesn't so let's say you are a gardener or a car mechanic and you want to basically leverage pmx for legion then often pmx is a great way to accelerate your exposure across all of the channels there are a few notes to be made over here first of all before you are going to leverage pmex as a b2c client i would definitely suggest maxing out search campaigns first because with your dedicated search campaigns even if you're running on broad match already you can have a lot more insights a lot more control in comparison to pmex is still a big black box and even though they are coming with new features and additional insights it's better to stick with dedicated campaign types first because you have way more control and you have way more opportunities to do what you want it to do so try to max out search first in terms of budgets in terms of exposure before dabbling into bmax So this means try to experiment with broad match, see how you can expand to new queries there where your phrase match and exact match queries weren't being able to hit. And also try to incorporate a DSA, for example. Try to touch on completely new keyword themes that you haven't thought about before. Try to use the keyword planner to find those themes by inserting your web pages and seeing what kind of terms or what kind of queries Google is coming up with, because these terms are definitely going to show up in your PMAX campaigns if you're going to be leveraging a PMAX campaign. So try to max out search first. Also try to experiment with dedicated upper funnel campaigns so you can control your ad messaging, offers, call to actions, target settings. This is giving you way more control about your brand messaging, about the features and the targets you're going to be using than just using PMAX. Even if you're going to use a Fire and Ice advanced structure, you still are going to see an overlap with bottom of the funnel, middle of the funnel and top of the funnel placements. So it's always best to experiment with dedicated campaign types first, and then use PMAX as a layer on top of that in order to expand beyond everything that you're doing already to fill in the gaps, to plug the holes, and to basically try to drive more conversion volume or more volume at all. So PMAX for B2B lead generation is very hard, extremely hard to run profitable. And this is because you have relatively low volumes in comparison to B2C across all of the networks. You have relatively low relevant, contextually relevant placements in the Google Display Network, in the YouTube video network. You have relatively low search volumes where PMAX is able to catch upon. So what you generally tend to see is that PMAX tends to cannibalize quite hard, quite aggressive with your relevant queries, because those are often the only signals and the queries, the hits that they can attract to perform well or within your target. And that means your search campaigns are going to be cannibalized quite hard. the algorithm has a few data points to work with and also to learn from the added signals are often much more limited and less profound because you have just way less data points than b2c clients let's say you are that car mechanic everyone in the netherlands or everyone in the world let's say you're a local car mechanic in the netherlands they tend to have a car They need a regular oil change. They need a regular tire change. They need a regular windshield repair if a rock hit their windscreen. So the volumes are way higher than if you are in a very specific B2B SaaS niche. So it's therefore completely hard to run PMAX and have it run consistently as well. What I've already told you, middle of the funnel, top of the funnel content is often hard to find that is relevant google has trouble finding your ideal ideal customer in their ecosystem since they have just a few signals and they are also less profound and different messaging across all network is even more important than b2c because sometimes in b2c you tend to come away with just a generic messaging across all of the the networks like display video search so let's say you are that car mechanic you can come away with a very generic ad messaging image ads and video images across all of the networks because people they always need that specific service and they always need a local car mechanic to solve for their car related problems. But for B2B SaaS or B2B lead gen, people do not know about your niche software solution or service at all. So that's why different messaging becomes even more important across the board than when you compare it to B2C. So it is really hard to run B2B PMX profitable. And I would generally stay away from doing so because all the limited data points you have for your b2b account already you want to see and you want to optimize on those few data points that you have and that means that you have to leverage dedicated campaign types like dedicated search campaigns to see those limited insights like the queries people are searching on the irrelevant queries that you want or need to exclude the potentially relevant placements in the GDN video network if you're running a dedicated video or display campaign and what's or not. So I would stay away from BMAX for B2B. I would definitely recommend testing it for B2C because it generally tends to perform really well if you're in a high volume vertical. Yeah, those are my two cents. I'm not saying that you shouldn't experiment with this if you are in b2b but but no if you're going to experiment with it it tends to be extremely hard to have it run profitable so that's it let's continue with the next lesson and hopefully see you there
