# Lead Gen Advanced campaign structure Fire and Ice

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** performance-max-shopping-mastery
- **Section:** Bonuses
- **Duration:** 15:05
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

What's up and welcome to this next video. And in this video, we are going to spice things up a little bit and we're going to be talking about an advanced campaign structure for lead gen and SaaS that we like to call the fire and ice structure. So let's dive in. So Performance Max has its challenges if you work with only one campaign. And this is especially true if you are doing a lead gen and or SaaS. The first main problem or the issue I have with VMAX is that it pushes the same assets in all networks. So you're just able to throw in a couple of headlines, a couple of description lines, a couple of images, a couple of videos that should be quite generic because you're pushing it to all of the same networks. You're pushing it in search, display, discovery, YouTube, and whatnot. And most of the times, the assets you upload, generally the text-based assets, the headlines and the description lines, they tend to be heavy bottom-of-the-funnel focused. So you're writing them towards completing a heavy call-to-action like book a demo now or contact us today. And that really doesn't work in upper funnel, where you are going to be prospecting and looking for potential new clients that haven't heard about you at all. So the second problem I have is PMAX optimizes for the same conversion goals in all networks. So generally, you're working with just one or a few primary conversion goals. I like to steer towards just one primary goal per campaign, since this way the algorithm gives you the most consistent results, from my experience at least. But generally, this primary goal is also heavily bottom-of-the-funnel focused. So it is focused on a demo request form completion or a form submission like a contact request or a phone call. And these kinds of conversion actions aren't really being completed by people clicking on one of your ads from YouTube or from Display or from Discovery or whatever. These people are not ready to buy from you yet. So that's the second problem I have. And the third problem I have with PMAX is that it doesn't really let you control bits and budgets for the different networks. So it's up to PMAX, obviously, to decide where it is going to push your assets in what kind of network. Is it going to be bottom of the funnel heavy, like search heavy, or is it really going to be a mix of all of the networks where it's doing some prospecting and some lead generation as well across the board it's not really yeah you cannot really control what pmx is doing and luckily with a performance max fire and ice setup you can so that's why we have invented this structure and basically the fire campaign structure the fire performance max campaign focuses on the warmer channels which is basically the lead generation side of things focusing on bottom of the funnel search heavy and then we have the ice performance campaign arm which is basically focused on your colder channels which is doing a lot of more a lot more prospecting and is trying to find people that are potentially interested in your services before we dive into the structure i want to quickly move on to the channel temperature because i think a lot of advertisers nowadays are quite lazy about crafting good offers that really resonate with your target audience across the board. And you really have to think about the channel temperature and the offer you're using in that channel when you want to run great campaigns. And this doesn't only apply to PMAX. To PMAX, it also applies to, well, dedicated campaign types like display, YouTube, whatever. I often see people just running a YouTube for action or a display campaign with a very heavy call to action, like a demo request or a context form submission that isn't really suitable for those kinds of networks. So keep in mind that you do not have products to sell over here, but you have a call to action for people to complete and the success of your campaign largely depends on the offer within your creatives per channel so to say your typical bottom of the funnel call to actions won't work for prospecting so once again if you're looking for a demo request for your very specific niche SaaS service people aren't going to book a demo if they do not know anything about your service or a software solution they want more information they want to they want to read about your solution first in the form of a white paper ungated ebook things like this so do not use a very hot or warm call to action that is used for the lead generation or hot channels for your prospecting caller channels it simply doesn't work you need to match your offer with the channel temperature that you're basically advertising in over here you see a couple of examples that you can use for the different channels we have or the different temperatures we have across the board so on the left hand side you have the cold channels and the colder channels are basically the top of the funnel the tofu channels these are placements like display placements youtube placements discovery placements and if you want to if you want to run a conversion focused campaign it should really mimic the the channel temperature the offer should really mimic the channel temperature like a infographic download a white paper download a cheat sheet download a checklist download a coupon things that are really that have a low barrier to to complete or to access a lot of times doing this ungated works really well instead of making them gated where you ask for a email or contact request because you want to optimize you want to let the algorithms optimize towards as many as conversion completions as possible where people are being introduced to your brand service solution whatever then we have the warmer channels and this is somewhere in the middle so these are the people that could have heard of you before or have been researching your your software solution already or your service if you're a simple legion and this is where you can work and experiment with case study live demo requests webinars ebook downloads free trials so these are really suitable for the warmer channels the middle of the funnel essentially and then we have the hot channel the bottom of the funnel bofu and this is where you're basically want to focus on really warm direct call to actions like book a consultation now book a consultation ask for a quotation contact us now start a free trial today ask for a free demo request or access your free demo right away so these are the offers that are really suitable when people are showing interest in your service or solution and those tend to work really well for the bottom of the funnel search mainly so yeah there we there we have it so let's continue to the actual fire and ice campaign structure that we see over here so basically we have two campaigns on the left hand side, we have the FIRE campaign, which is focused on lead generation. So the bottom of the funnel. And on the right hand side, we have the ICE campaign that is focused on the prospecting sides of things. So basically you want to use the same asset group structure for the services that you want to promote. This can be one service or multiple services, or maybe one software tooling or multiple software tooling but where it differs or where it start to differ is on asset level so on the left hand side in the fire campaign you can be really direct and clear about the solution you're offering and the offer you're basically offering so you can throw in the hot hot channel call to actions like book a demo today contact us if you have any questions etc and on the right inside inside of the ice campaign people do not know about your service they do not know about your brand they do not know about your tool so you have to introduce them to your tool so you have to be way more explanatory inside of your assets and you cannot throw in call to actions like book a demo today or ask for a consultation call whatever so you have to think about this quite clearly. Then we have the bidding part. So since your FIRE campaign is mainly focused on lead generation and it will be focused on the search network mainly, if you're setting it up correctly, you need a higher target CPA because CPCs are higher in this network and your conversion rates will be way higher than your ICE campaign as well. So you can bid more aggressively and you also have to bid more aggressively because of the higher CPC in that specific network. Signal-wise, you want to be using very specific signals in your FIRA campaign. You really want to leverage audience signals like custom intent segments, like people that have searched for your services, tools, maybe even business in the last couple of days. So this is your Google search term in market custom segment. and you also might want to throw in direct competitors that are really similar to you as a business. For the prospecting side of things, you are looking for a more broader audience and therefore you want to use more broader signals. And this, how you can leverage this is basically also create custom segments. I'm really a fond of the custom segments where you just use more generic keywords that are not directly, that do not really have a high intent, like a commercial intent or transactional intent behind them. So we instruct Google to look for, well, similar audiences that are still looking for your services tool or solution or whatever, but aren't really clear in what they are looking right now. They haven't made their decision about the specific tool they are going to use so let's say you have a you have a marketing automation tool to to market then in your fire campaign you can use a very specific signal where you include a term like a marketing automation solution marketing automation tool marketing automation software terms like this and in your ice prospecting arm you can use a term like marketing automation or crm automation so that is a little bit more generic and a little bit less specific so to say you can even go broader than that but that's completely up to you you have to experiment with what and how you how your campaign basically performs then we are going to the goals so for your fire campaign you want to leverage high value campaign specific conversion actions and with that you want to steer the algorithm towards a demo request completion or a consultation call completion or a contact request goals like that for your ice campaign you want to use low value conversion actions like we have touched on in the previous slide already you can experiment with ungated white paper downloads ebook downloads coupons i don't know everything that is really takes really low effort to complete where people do not have to leave their contact details, but where you can still use those conversion actions as a signal for the algorithm to optimize towards. So it's best to still use a conversion action and for example, a target CPA. So the algorithm can optimize towards the signals and the dimensions and the audience that tend to complete your, well, low value conversion action. For the ICE campaign, you can also use a new customer acquisition feature like only bid for new customers. So you prevent remarketing whenever possible. This doesn't always work since there are still flaws in the system, but you can use this feature to help Google a little bit to steer towards new customers only. We have come across great cases already so over here you see alfred who's working at a big agency in the netherlands experimenting with this structure already he is naming it a micro micro macro approach but essentially it is the same approach as the fire and ice structure it's just a different naming convention he's seen some great results with this already i've seen great results in my own campaigns and my own accounts and i've heard other signals in the market as well i would highly suggest if If you are an advanced lead gen or SaaS advertiser to start experimenting with this setup, it doesn't always work and you really have to turn on the knobs to steer the fire campaign towards the lower, towards the warmer channels like search only and the micro, the fire, sorry, the ice campaign towards the upper funnels like display, video, et cetera. I really recommend installing the script of Mike Rhodes that basically tells you where your spend is going so you can see if your structure is doing what you want if it's not doing what you want then you have to experiment with different targets audience signals budgets maybe even conversion actions but yeah it's a great advanced way for lead gen advertisers SaaS advertisers to gain back a little bit more control and basically have have your problem solved solved so that's it that's where i want to end the lesson with good luck and i hope to see you in the next one ciao
