# What 30K JPMorgan AI Agents Taught Me

**Date:** 2025-12-17
**Channel:** VentureBeat
**Duration:** 46 minutes
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rLxJzeRGzV8

## Summary

JP Morgan Chase achieved widespread AI adoption by distributing powerful, reusable AI building blocks to employees, enabling them to create custom solutions and fostering an "agent economy."  Their strategy focused on connecting AI to existing systems and data, rather than solely on model superiority, to maximize value extraction and drive innovation across the enterprise.

## Transcript

Over the course of those first few months there, we went from zero users to 250,000 users. There was actually a little bit of a competitive angle to it when your neighbor has it and you don't. And I think that gamification was actually helpful to turbocharge the the adoption. Today, one in two JP Morgan employees around the world use it nearly every day. This is Venture Beats Beyond the Pilot Enterprise AI in action. I'm Samine. I'm Matt Marshall. Today's episode is presented by Outshift by Cisco, Cisco's emerging tech incubation engine and [music] driver of Aentic AI quantum nextgen infra and beyond. Today we're talking with Derek Waldron. Derek is the chief analytics officer at JP Morgan Chase. While many enterprises are just starting their AI journey, JP Morgan began building their internal platform LLM suite over two and a half years ago. That's long before most people had even heard of chat GPT. The result is one of the largest enterprise AI rollouts in the world with one in every two employees using their tools daily. For us, what makes the story so compelling is their early contrarian insight that the models themselves would become a commodity and that the real challenge and the defensible moat is in the connectivity around the system. Welcome to Beyond the Pilot, Derek. &gt;&gt; Thank you very much. Nice to be here. &gt;&gt; You started this journey two and a half years ago. What were some of the core insights that made you focus on building this unified internal platform instead of just sort of waiting for vendor solutions to come along? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, it was certainly early days and I think like everyone we were also trying to figure out exactly how this technology was was going to be used, where it was going to have impact, what the strategy should be around it. But I think very early on we had three insights which became principles of our our strategy. One of the principles which I think many people have realized now is that we have to actually distribute the technology into the hands of the employee base at large. Uh it's a general purpose technology. It's uh very uh useful in a wide variety of of of situations but unless people get access to it, you're squanding the opportunity. The second insight we had was that no two job functions in a large enterprise are exactly the same. Even within a team like operations or like with sales, the day-to-day things you do are different than what your neighbor is doing. And that can't be solutioned from the center. If the center an an AI team is trying to build out uh individual solutions for the for the organization, they just can't scale quickly enough. And therefore, the only way to to to crack that is to be able to give very powerful reusable building blocks and capabilities that then the individuals around the firm can be used to build solutions themselves. And the third principle was the realization that the actual long-term bottleneck for driving maximum value from this technology was not going to be about the model. It was going to be about how the the technology connects into the technology estate and data and process estate of an enterprise. While there was an arms race and new models were coming out and there was a lot of speculation as to what model was going to be best and who was going to win, we dissociated from that ourselves from that and said it's sort of irrelevant. Somebody's going to win or multiple people are going to win. There's going to be great models out there. So, let's have a thought experiment at some point. a very powerful model, call it super intelligence, is going to show up on the on the doorstep. And then the problem statement is how do you use it? How do you put it to use? And the realization was that even if super intelligence were to show up tomorrow, there's no value that can be um optimally extracted from it, if that super intelligence can't connect into the systems, the data, the tools, the knowledge, the processes that exist within the enterprise. And that's actually a long pole in the tent that needs to be solved for. So all of those three principles was what gave rise then that said, okay, we're going to build a platform to solve all three of these things. We want to get the technology on the hands of of the population. We want to turn the tap into the incredible uh innovative culture that JP Morgan has and and tap into the innovation that the employee base can can bring. And then third, we want to solve in a very very uh strategic way connectivity across the enterprise to super to supercharge all of this. I'm really curious like what was the hardest part of that cell back two and a half years ago and especially the concept of sort of like oh we should give these models our data right like a lot of people were like ain't no way we're going to let any of our data touch you know any other sort of AI model. How did you go about selling that? You know, uh where was that difficult in the organization? Was that easier with client advisor and harder with, you know, other parts of the organization, etc. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, first of all, we didn't give our datas to large language models. Data privacy was the first and foremost consideration in in all of this. So part of also the reason that we wanted to build a platform ourselves was that we understood then the lineage of all of the data because security was was the the the the primary concern at the time. And then in terms of how we sold it to the organization, we didn't actually at the time share the the long-term vision. It would have been maybe too much to to digest and too much to sell given the the nence of the technology. This was the strategy we had in mind. But what we did uh sell first of all was just the first of those principles getting the tools in the hands of the population. We didn't force it on anybody. We built a a a great P platform. It had great capabilities and then we invited people. What we saw over the per first few months of launching it was it uh turned into a a viral uptake. So people wanted to get access to it. It was cool to have access to it. there was actually a little bit of a competitive angle to it when your neighbor has it and you don't and I think that gamification was also um just like we see in so many other technologies actually helpful helpful to um to turbocharge the the adoption in addition we had a lot of um a lot of marketing education around it so you couldn't help but walk in in in some of our headquarter offices and see uh advertising campaigns around what the AI can do for you and how to use it and new features we would regularly be talking about it in town halls, some of our CEOs would be would be promoting the use of it. So, it was really a sort of a fullcourt um change management effort. But, uh over the course of those those first few months there, we went from zero users to 250,000 users. And as you as you pointed out, now today um one in two JP Morgan employees around the world use it nearly every day. &gt;&gt; Derek, uh I want to go into your own background. You have PhD in computational physics. You you spent time at McKenzie I think for what 10 12 years focused on strategy transformational strategy and then you joined JP Morgan and and it was quickly focused on strategy you in the CEO's office my understanding can you walk through how your experience was brought to bear on this key fundamental insight that you shared right which is assume super intelligence shows up on your doorstep and then everything flowed from there. Can you take us back to to that experience that you you you brought? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I I do think that at this moment in time given that AI is is um deeply technical uh in nature, but in order to gain the value of it, there's also this very significant portion around organizational change management and transformation of processes. I do think that this actually now draws from the breadth of experience that I that I had. Obviously with a with a PhD in um in physics, I have the technical depth to be able to to understand how the how the technology works and how solutions are made. But my time at McKenzie and my time in strategy was also where the bulk of my career has been spent was I think very helpful because it also taught me how you lead change and transformation in an organization and that includes all aspect of thinking about re-engineering platform builds the change management aspects of it the organizational uh change aspects of it and so I think that's just made it um particularly helpful then when we started this this generative AI journey at JP Morgan there was some certain pattern recognition that then allowed me to probably make some some helpful helpful choices of of of of how to go about this. &gt;&gt; So, let's talk about the platform LLM suite. It got some great publicity, right? It it vaulted you to I think the top of the AI evident index uh which which tracks innovation and AI across all banks. So, you're number one. You got a big write up in in the Wall Street Journal in in in February of this year talking about that success. You [snorts] started by identifying common patterns like rag and summarization as part of this suite. How did it evolve from a suite of tools into what you now call that this connected ecosystem? &gt;&gt; Yeah, the way so the way that it started was basically solving for the the distribution of just large language model technology to basically get it anchored on on everybody's desktop within a within a hosted platform. Then that became the the landing ground. But what we're also beginning to identify is we in early 2023 we we did countless ideiation workshops with businesses with operations with technology with with probably thousands of people around the bank where we were demoing the technology and brainstorming what how could this how could this be used? What type of novel solutions could this be used? And what we very quickly realized was that first of all there was a ton of different ideas. You you couldn't go into another meeting without another dozen ideas coming out. But in addition they ended up being very very largely restatements of the same type of solutions again and again and again. So one of them was rag as you said people had knowledge uh and knowledge can be represented as policies. It can also be represented as a document that may sit in a in a deal room team if you're investment banking or maybe a repository of of past information from sales. everyone has their own knowledge uh expressed in in in digital form and people we be want to be able to use AI to query that and analyze that. So that was one one pattern. Another pattern that emerged was being able to bring conversational questioning to structured databases. So text to SQL and there's commercial offerings for that but um basically uh automating the process of traditional database uh querying and then there's other patterns that exist where especially in a bank so many um people deal with documents all day. Some of those documents are very marketing style. Some of them are technical reports, research reports. Some of them are are are pitch books. But having a very very powerful capability to be able to document ingestion, analytics, comparison, these types of things also was recognized as a pattern. So we identified maybe half a dozen of the most prominent patterns and we started to solve those. And then that began to to to allow us to move beyond just an an LLM on people's desktop to now we've actually got packaged very flexible reusable reusable components which people then can configure in their own way to bring solutions to life and that's what really turbocharged then a lot of innovation because people started to be creating AI AI assistants to do all sorts of things uh around the bank far more at scale than what we ever could have done centrally by trying to build out these solutions. from a central team &gt;&gt; the connectivity right you know rag is only as good as your data that you put into it how did you sort of decide what data that goes into it and and and my guess is that that was a progression like you we're talking about something that's taken you two and a half years how has that evolved over time &gt;&gt; yeah so so the the journey was was was like this once we started to solve some of the fundamental patterns and a lot of the patterns were about helping people to do um question and answers, summary activities, etc. Then once that problem was solved, then people began we began to encourage people to to think about it, but also people began to to realize, well, I don't just want to solve this part of of of the of a process. I want to be able to solve the whole process. And if you take a look at the types of things that people would do in a bank, an investment banker, for example, would regularly go to for a particular client, go to news, check the earnings release, do web research, pull from research about a particular client, and then do a briefing note. A risk professional may do something for the same client, but it would look a little different there. They might look at news and earnings and look at um scraping for troubled warning signs, but then they'll go to their risk data analyt analytics database and start doing exposures and analytics etc. And so what happens is is that when you realize what the processes that people do within a bank, you've got to take a longitudinal lens. And more than often what that means is interacting with multiple different systems. That's especially the case in a bank, any bank where you have a lot of different um uh a large tech tech data state because of of of how the banks banks grew up. And therefore, you have to connect the AI into all of these systems. And so the connection problem is not just about bringing the data to your LLM or or or um or connecting it with a knowledge base. It we we we we realized we need to take this in a very holistic way. So we talk about the AI connected enterprise as being one where we put AI in the center and over time that AI will just become more and more and more powerful. It needs to be hosted at the center of a platform but then that platform needs to have ubiquitous connections where pe people can interact with it um directly with very sophisticated documents. It can be connected into knowledge stores that are provided. It can be connected into firmwide structured data systems. It could be connected into applications like CRM systems or uh HR systems or uh other types of systems like that. And then it needs to be equipped with its own tools to help analysis and and and preparation material. Once you've got that that that AI connected ecosystem at scale, now you you you you have the the basic ingredients that almost any type of job function if they really think about what they do on a day-to-day basis in a longitudinal process lens. They they they can they can leverage the AI platform to be able to to to to to run these types of processes. And that's the vision where where we're going. So we had that realization um uh a couple of a couple of years ago and we um we we we we built the the platform around the concept of of this type of ubiquitous connectivity and then in particular the last year has been very much about then hydrating that with connections across the system. So we have connections into our trading systems, our finance systems, our risk systems today and we continue to just add more and more connection con connections now by the month. This series is presented by Outshift, Cisco's emerging tech incubation engine [music] and driver of the internet of agents, an open interoperable internet for agent-to-agent collaboration. Learn more about the internet of agents and explore how agentic systems are the future at outshift.isco.com. From a technical point of view, I I can understand that you've got these sort of real time search things to get, you know, specific news or something like that. But what about the data that you had to sort of reformat perhaps for vector stores or knowledge graphs, right? You know, my guess is that JP Morgan probably didn't have a lot of use for vector stores before rag, right? Is that something that like you consciously decide okay all these knowledge bases we're going to turn them into vector stores and this these ones we're going to go for a knowledge graph once you sort of just you test that sort of out. I'm very curious to hear that side of it. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So we didn't make those decisions centrally. We built the capabilities. So the the workhorse was a was a was a rag system. We're actually in our fourth generation now of of a rag system. So it's continued to uplift in the capabilities to do more and more. We made that capability available and then we invited uh the the whole population of JP Morgan to identify the knowledge assets that they thought were most helpful and then they would then uh connect those and all of the mechanics behind the scenes were were made invisible to them. &gt;&gt; So you've got four generations. What changed? Can you give us sort of some insight into what changed along the way? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, exactly. So the very first the first release was maybe the the most basic of of just your your rag pipeline um in in a in a vector store that was largely a an AI pipeline which needed to be to be deployed in applications. The second generation was then where we we democratized it. We we federated uh available to the entire firm so that now people could contribute their own knowledge stores and set various um access provisions around around that. uh we called that knowledgebased connect. The third generation was when we we ran began to realize that not all knowledge is is actually created created equal. So a business may have a set of documents that hosts a lot of the knowledge that that that it has. But actually the types of questions that that people ask, we realize that there's hierarchies of information. There's some information where you actually don't want to go to an underlined source. You want a scripted answer, a frequently asked question. You want a verbatim that's very important if it if if the language matters. You don't want any degree of freedom. So that needs to be now at the top of the hierarchy. There's a second hierarchy of information needs to be evergreen. So you don't want to take that from just a vector score because then you're putting the burden on a knowledge mana store manager to make sure it's perennial. So you want to be able to carve out a pipeline that goes to the authoritative real-time sources. Then next in your hierarchy are sort of um uh knowledge and information that's contained in documents that stands the test of time. And then your your your your your last of your your your your um your sort of your hierarchy is information that may um may be more temporal temporal. So it uh becomes less relevant as as time goes on. And you have to bring that lens to it. And if you actually think about it, like that's a hierarchy, meaning that when a question is asked, what you know, you want to do is start from top top to to top to bottom. So that required quite an uplift in the in the pipeline. And we we figured that out by working with with with teams around the bank and understanding what they were trying to do and what they were unable to do and where they were having challenges. So that was the the third the third generation. The fourth generation was much more around multimodality. Most um rag pipelines started out as just texton. But if you think about so many of the information that exists within financial services, reports with graphs or company pitch books that are very marketing like you need a visual pipeline to that. So that's now where where we are with that. But we have a pipeline. It will continue to get more and more and more and more powerful. A very very sophisticated document ingestion and analytics pipeline is table stakes to bring AI to life in in the context of a of an enterprise especially a bank. &gt;&gt; Derek you you talked about focusing on two core models uh open AI and anthropic right as a way of of simplifying and it's it's also reflective of your philosophy. Hey, it's not the model, right? A lot of companies we've talked with have a leaderboard of 50 models and they've got a a sophisticated router and they're you're [snorts] using different models for different use cases. Can you can you walk us through why you know that was so critical to focusing on this this bigger problem of connections and then maybe you know just a a followup on the ramifications of that. You you have something called doc LLM, right? Which is this layout generative model designed for multimodal document understanding, you know, special specialized or customized to your workflows. How do you avoid with your kind of your homegrown solutions being kind of behind the curve, right? And and not being able to say use Google's uh pretty sophisticated Google aare I mean document aare technologies. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Well, first of all, um I think over time we'll we'll we'll um we'll bring more models uh in in into the estate. Um it's uh diversification is important. Some models are good for some things, some are for others. So cho choice is nice because then people can can pick the best that they that they that they um for for the for the task at hand. But generally speaking, um you know, if you just have a sort of a smaller set of the most powerful models, then um that's good enough. And then more of the solutioning as we've we've already described is really about the connect connections and and and how it works together in the ecosystem. We um we've always had a hybrid approach from the day one of both uh both buy and build. So the platform that we built was an aggregation concept where what we wanted to do was we said we want to be able to build it with innovations that we have and hydrate it but if there's good capabilities that exist out there in the industry we'll bring them on on board. And today it's a it's it's a blend. Uh DOC LLM was an innovation that came out of our our our research team. It was a really nice innovation because it applied transformer technology to uh visual visual forms. Think like a a check or something like that where now you have spatial awareness. That was a problem that was very particular to financial services and we didn't expect that a third party would come and um and solve that anytime soon at the the level of rigor that that we needed. So, so that's why we uh we we made that and then capabilities like that get getting integrated in but building capabilities and maintaining it also of course costs ongoing time and so we're always taking a critical lens recognizing at some point we will just shift to third party solutions at the time that makes that makes sense. you've had this surprising viral moment uh that that hasn't really been as as well reported, right, when you launched the personal assistance and and kind of allowed individuals with the org to build these agents, which you were calling personal assistance, I think, right? 30,000 of of these things have have kind of bloomed. What was it about empowering individuals to build their own tools that tapped into this entrepreneurial spirit and created this this blossoming? Yeah, it um so it it it's correct. A few months ago, we launched the capability of of personal assistants to really empower the individual users to be able to customize an assistant with a persona instructions and and roles and available tools and available knowledge. It was largely what we thought was going to be a convenience feature because so much innovation was already happening around the the the bank where people were were um building good prompts effectively what what they were doing and but we wanted to give them a little more power and convenience rather than have to have to maintain prompts and a prompt library. um we wanted to said let's give them a nice uh uh capability just to to to sort of em um en encapsulate it as a more a more friendly thing which we'll call an assistant and we'll give them a little more flexibility that's not just about the prompt but some other aspects of how it's how it how it's used. Uh and we've we've built that out over over time as well. There's more and more capabilities of of things that assistants can do but largely it started out as just a convenience pattern. We what we were surprised by was just how viral it was because the organization now interpreted um that uh all of a sudden they this they weren't just designing prompts. They were building assets. They were building assistance. People were sharing the assistance they built. almost within just a few days, many of our lines of business started to create uh assistant web pages where people could post and uh and share some of the the really uh um the the biggest innovations. Uh and so uh that was really then I think eye opening for us that there is this the deep deep um rooted uh uh innovative population with JP Morgan that if we can uh if we can continue to equip with really easy to use really um uh really powerful capabilities. They can they can probably turbocharge the next the next evolution of this uh of of of this journey. If someone's building that, is that more than just a prompt? Like can they select what sources of data can be pulled in by a rag? Uh do they have tools? Can this be hooked up to an email sort of system to automatically send emails or things like that? Can you give us perhaps some sort of tangible examples of those? You know what? And and then also it sounds fascinating that you've sort of built this almost like we would perhaps refer to it as an agent economy right in there or an assistant economy in there. I you know is this sort of like a trading system almost of like okay we we'll develop this and I'm curious for for as you leading this AI team what do you learn from all of those things as well? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So um so it is more than than just just a just a prompt. um you can attach to it connections to systems which are already within the platform, connection to knowledge within the platforms and then there are um tools that are available like data analysis and um pitchbook creation and and these types of things. So whatever is available in the system is available provided you're entitled to it. And that's a very important point which is that you because we we we built all of this from the the ground up we were also able to build it in a way that was very um very integrated and compatible with our core entitlement systems and other good good governance mechanisms and that's a very important important part of it. So um when an when an employee wants to to to build something they are only available to use what they're already uh entitled for. Uh but within that they they have flexibility. The second thing that I would note is that we call these personal assistants because these are for individual use only. But we do have the means by which then a great personal assistant can be created into more of a a team or a firmwide uh solution. But that does then go through other types of governance mechanisms. Um and we have a very we've always had a very robust framework by which AI solutions go from uh ideiation through uh in into production along with all of the uh the requisite uh risk reviews and uh that necessary. So we have the means for that. And so what what personal assistance I think has done is it's really um expanded the the front end of this innovation pipeline where now the these these assistants are are being built. There's a lot of excitement around it. people are comparing the best of them are also being identified and those that that are going to be promoted then into more robust scaled uh solutions that are available within the firm and and all of this I I think is uh your your last question was around what what role are sort of we playing how are we interacting with this I think that what we've we've observed in the in in particular in 2025 is that we've landed on a sort of an innovation flywheel uh if you will where what happens is now is is individuals around the bank um uh have have access to very powerful capabilities and building blocks and that gives them ideas of things that they want to do from there. They come and try and build them and some of them flourish and and scale. Some of them highlight that there's actually gaps inside the maybe the connections that are available. We have a team that surveills all of this and surfaces up what those gaps are and then we have a a process to triage those so that we can solve them centrally. when we solve them centrally, we not only solve those particular um individuals problems, but we also then expand the capabilities which then creates more ideas and we're in this flywheel effect. I think the earliest days of that um even even as much as a a year and a half ago to two years ago, I had a realization for my myself which was that when I found myself um calling someone for some information or ask them a question or emailing someone, I would immediately pause and stop and say, "Hang on, what's missing from my own personal AI assistant ecosystem that means that I can't ask an AI assistant to do And that's actually helped turbocharge and identify a lot of the the various gaps. Now that mindset is trying to be uh scaled across JP Morgan. &gt;&gt; It sounds almost like this is like your ultimate R&amp;D department in many ways that they test things out uh and sort of work out what at least what they want maybe not how to actually sort of do it. Are you seeing things like from that sort of personal AI assistance that suddenly now tools like RPA or things like that that were perhaps you know being promoted five years ago are kind of null and void now because people know exactly what they want exactly what connectors they want exactly what tools they want. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well definitely generative AI uh certainly pushes the horizons of traditional RP RPA. the the mindset of RPA is which is that look at a discipline process and which part can we automate through rules that's still a very uh important important skill set but what generative AI has done is now where RPA sort of capped out because it ultimately couldn't be done through through rules or automations required a human now you can insert an an AI agent to bring the intelligence or the cognition to to to to complete that that part of the puzzle and so that's what's now allowing I think everyone to take a look at their endto-end processes with a whole fresh lens and um it taps into a new opportunity set that that that wasn't uh available before. &gt;&gt; Derek, I'm curious on on this agent economy. Um obviously it's I think it's it's become the envy of of of the industry, right? It's it sounds like all all banks are now trying to to emulate this. How far are you allowing employees to go with this? Right. So, you talk obviously about um in in internal governance, they have the permissions that they should have, but are are they allowed to go externally and pull in Bloomberg through some sort of MCP, bring information in? How do how do you how do you where are the guardrails? What are the limits? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, there's multiple levels of guard guardrails. at the lowest level is the guardrails around the platform itself and it's it's been constructed as quite a well-governed uh platform such that what can be done in the platform is is is uh is safe within the platform so we don't allow for example anyone to come and just call an MCP server a MCP server would need to be onboarded into the platform and made available and the prerequisites for that would be security testing making sure that legal agreements are in use because third party data also has legal legal provisions around how data can be used with generative AI. So all of those things need to be checked but then once it gets onboarded that's a very powerful step because now centrally that onboarding has basically um onboarded a new capability for the whole firm at scale and then provided that people are entitled to it and not all services or data solutions have firmwide data subscriptions. Some of them do, some of them don't. But again, whatever it is employees entitled to can then can then be can then be used um in uh in in in a variety of different ways. &gt;&gt; So let's let's move into to adoption uh Derek. Right. So so again you you've reached incredible scale uh with I think roughly one and two employees 200,000 or so of 400,000 using these tools daily. But you you mentioned initially getting to about 30% with your early adopters. So you know what did the fullcourt press from CEO town halls to social proof? I know you worked on this stuff you're working on this stuff yourself uh look like to get over the 50% mark. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So um we saw an interesting human phenomenon as we were as we were initially rolling it out. So when new groups of users were being given access, uh what we noticed was that it didn't matter what team you were, whether you were sales, finance, technology, operations, it didn't matter. About 25 to 30% of people just got busy using it right away. At that point, I sort of I reflect and I said, "Ah, that must be your your early adopter uh population that you see in in the technology." So getting to sort of 25 to 30% of the firm using it actually came quite easily because they just they just used it once they had available. What we the the journey then from 25 to 30% to where we are now which I think is a little north of 60% or so is has been um a consistent journey almost week on week. We continue to see growing levels of adoption of use, but it's it's been a different a different slope uh in that growth. And I think what's going on here is that this is really your sort of your fast follower population. And so they're sort of seeing their neighbors using it. They're hearing stories about it. Also, the capabilities and the solutions available are becoming more powerful. And so they're they're they're following and using it. We are still on this trajectory where week after week this this grows. And I I I do think over time we we will eventually be seeing 100% of of the firm use it. It did take a full full court press to uh make make sure that people were and and are continuously aware of the new types of capabilities that that that are available. When we first launched, um, our HR team was was a terrific partner and they helped build for us what was also, I think, a very a fairly advanced and pioneering training program designed for the employee base at large with the objective of making them aware on how to make the best of their AI tools that were available. It was branded AI made easy and uh we had tens of thousands of people uh take that in the in the first few months and that was the basics of just what AI can do for you, what it can't do for you, how to how to use it in basic ways, but all the way up to even more sophisticated advanced concepts like roleplaying where you can use it to create but then you can pivot a personality to to then to critique it. Those are fairly advanced advanced methods and then we've kept that training alive so that as capabilities grow we just continue to stack on so people are are are always being made aware of uh how to make the most of these things but then there's we we we tried within JP Morgan to just use every angle to get to the employee base. So CEOs would talk about it in town halls. I personally spent a lot of time in senior leader um off sites and things like that giving demos talking about what I could do. We have a solutions team that in that engages teams to educate and ideulate. We you could show up and you'd see on the screens in many of our headquarter offices campaigns of what could be done. Our JP Morgan internal newsletter would be featuring stories, user stories. We would feature user stories about great stories on what people have done with it and how they're using about it because we found that type of peer uh insight is what really really captivates the the the attention of people. Uh so I think all of these things have been very effective in helping drive forward the uh the awareness and and innovation. &gt;&gt; Do you think uh as you go along and you get to sort of maybe the last 30% last 20% of people, what's going to convince those people, right? Like it's it sounds like you've done a very much a top- down kind of fullcourt press, but is it going to be the people seeing the person next to them and realizing, oh, this is not intimidating? This is something that can actually help me. I'm curious like how do you deal with the lites right of of people who who are resistant to this and there's definitely a section of the population it seems in every organization that is resistant to this but I actually think that that we'll get to 100%. And the fundamental reason is first of all JP Morgan is a has a culture of sort of wanting to be the best and wanting to be on the the frontier of everything. And so when and if you give people good tools that just obviously make their life easier and better, I think people are naturally going to be attracted to that. I think that sort of last 20% you you recording are probably people who are still a little bit um nervous about it. They don't necessarily know how to do it. Maybe they they feel they're going to fail trying. But I think that as their colleagues around them do begin to use it and it becomes more and more the norm. I think you'll just see that everybody be begins to to embrace it. I would also add as well that from where I'm focusing, it's not necessarily just the number of users. It's interesting if you take a take a look at the usage across the population. It's also worth taking a look at those initial 25% of the people to see what what's what's become of them. And it turns out that they're basically become the power users. So they're not just users, but they're using it multiples more than the average. And that's also an interesting population to pay attention to and tap into because they're are the hopeful solution developers that we want to tap into that they can build great relevant solutions for the rest of the population. Do you see that being any particular groups like a client advisor all over this because it makes their job easier and perhaps back office people less or something like that? Is there are they patterns like that? It's all it's all over. It's all over. And um uh you know they tend to they tend to be um individuals who are just a little more comfortable with innovation, a little more comfortable try trying things, a little more um push wanting to push the frontier of things. Um but we we are identifying that and that in itself has become a community that we've tapped into. Uh so for example, when we're trying out new new beta features and releases, we tap into those those communities uh to to give us feedback. Um and then we want to give th that that that uh community tools as well that they can use to um uh share their share their innovations. &gt;&gt; Derek, when we're talking with other enterprise companies, they've hit a wall, right? That that there is this kind of known wall in the industry, right? You hit this 25 to 30% wall. Sounds like, you know, you kind of hit that first first wall. Uh maybe you don't call it a wall because, you know, you you you continue to see that that that growth, but it was it was a a different slope. Is there anything else that your your tech builders, right, your your your the builders of these these AI agents are doing to help this adoption? Is there something around the interface? Other things that you've seen working or is this culture is this just cultural, you know, beat them with a stick over the head to get them get them using this? We are here to solve business problems, not here to build great tech. And importantly, the way that that manifested in terms of our product development cycles is that we don't start a new feature, a new product unless we have line of sight to five different teams who know that that capability will solve a problem. And that turns out to be a really important north star for for everything because then as we're designing the experience, as we're building the the underlying tech components, as we're testing it, we're always making sure that it's solving the problem. But we also make sure that's not solving only that problem. It's being solved in a general enough way that it can solve other problems. But at least then we know that when we launch something new, it will solve those problems. And I think that that's been really very helpful because then when we also launch a new capability, it doesn't just become a capability in isolation. We immediately attach it going back to some of the change management and communications and campaigns and news stories. We immediately can then say here's how some of the new capabilities are actually being used in the businesses to solve problems. &gt;&gt; I was struck by your personal anecdote that you shared with us earlier before sending an email. you pause, you know, an in email to say ask what's the vac vacation policy at JP Morgan or you know how much vacation do I have or name your other process question you you say what's missing from my AI ecosystem my my knowledge base um that forces me to do this and and so how how are you trying to in inculcate that sort of mindset right where you're actually pausing before you're asking a colleague a question and actually seeing if you can get it from the AI system first. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I developed that forced myself to develop that n mindset um about a year and a half to to two years ago. By the way, the reason that I I sort of did that was it was um a reflection 25 years ago when I first was exposed to Google and I remember at that time I said ah I said you know today people are satisfied by just being being in a bar and asking a question and not knowing the answer to it. I said at some point that's probably going to change where that's going to become not tolerable. everyone will immediately go to the internet and ask the question and what I observed was that actually played out but it took I think about two or three years for that sort of cultural uh transformation and so I witnessed the pattern here again and I said well I don't want this to be two or three years let's just do it right now so that was when I when I set the mindset but then what I did was I I I promoted that mindset so when I do my senior leader meetings and town halls first of all I share the anecdote but then one of the last departing thoughts that I leave with a group is what would your ideal AI assistant do for you? Because that's the mindset that you have to have. If someone can't articulate that, then it's very difficult for AI to help them. They've got to be able to articulate what would AI what would they like AI to do do for that. Then you can have a structured conversation once that is articulated. What's the data? What's the techniques? What's the what's the connections etc. and begin to unpack it? And so that's the very very first step of tapping into this into this flywheel. &gt;&gt; So Derek, so you've got this agent economy. Uh you're clearly have some momentum. I'm kind of curious what's next? Where do you take this budget? Where is that budget going? Can you fill us in? &gt;&gt; Within JP Morgan, um we talk strategically about a top- down strategy and a bottom-up strategy. And the bottom-up strategy is really everything that we've talked about today. So building incredibly powerful platform capabilities that have this connections and have the knowledge and have the capabilities that will just grow and scale over time enable and enable more and more and more. That trajectory I think is is is quite clear how that will play out over the next year and and and two years and it will just allow us to do more and more and more especially as the models just continue to get even even more powerful. But I think what's also now been been been realized is that this this bottom-up innovation, as great as it is and exciting as it is, won't actually fully transform a company on its own. Business is run on on on long processes that cross multiple different types of teams. And so if we want to be able to really move the needle on those processes, think reducing the endtoend time to disperse credit or reducing the end toend time to onboard a new employee. these types of things. There also has to be a little more of a strategic element to actually rethink what the process itself will need to look like in a world of AI and in a world of AI agents. And so that's be a piece now where we're beginning to also revisit with a lot more in intensity and it complements what's going on bot bottom up. So, as we can begin to rethink these endto-end processes and what's possible, leveraging many of the the componentry that that's available, that's I think how we at JP Morgan think we'll be able to really really transform the enterprise. &gt;&gt; Final question. What what's the one thing that you want to do with AI that you can't do yet? &gt;&gt; Yeah, that's a good question. The things that I'd really love to be able to do would be to to throw vast amounts of documentation. and think about like an investment banking deal or something like that and really have AI be able to analyze that and and and eat just just eat eat all of that content insight. And we can certainly do a great job on that with with powerful ingestion pipelines and and and building specialized agents to do things, but typically typically speaking when we try new things, we're still sort of running up into some of the some of just the capability limits of today's current models. But boy, they're getting they're getting better. you know what you can do now with the the the latest the latest models and their very long context window and multimodality are things that we couldn't do six months or or a year ago. Having having a system that can [music] that can just just use that with a superhuman judgment would probably be a pretty big unlock. Derek, it's been wonderful having you on on the show. Really interesting to hear what you're doing at JP Morgan. Sounds like you've got a you know, you're very well along the road, but it sounds like you've still got plenty more things coming. So, we look forward to talking to you again in the future. &gt;&gt; Thank you very much. Appreciate it. &gt;&gt; Thank you, Jere. &gt;&gt; And special thanks to our presenting sponsor, Outshift by Cisco. You can learn more about their work on the internet of agents via their Linux Foundation project, agnttcy.org. This open-source project enables agents to work at scale across any vendor or framework with trusted and secure discovery, [music] identity access, and observability. For more stories about the AI revolution, like and subscribe to the podcast and check out venturebeat.com to sign up for our newsletters. [music]
