# Goal setting reality check

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** goal-setting-mastery
- **Section:** Framework
- **Duration:** 21:03
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

When you are defining Google Ads goals, it's really important to make sure that those are achievable and feasible, and you can do so by performing a goal-setting reality check. So in this lesson, I want to cover why doing a reality check is so important. You will learn some common goal mistakes that you want to avoid. You will learn about key dependencies to validate, and I will give you some validation tools and methods to think about that you can use in order to validate your goals. so setting ambitious goals is great but once again they need to be achievable because goals without validations are just wishes and many different factors influence your goal achievability and feasibility and with simple goal validation you can prevent costly mistakes or having difficult conversations with your stakeholders later on so you always want to verify if your goals are actually achievable. So in the first section of this lesson, I want to give you some common goal mistakes that I often come across that you want to be aware of. So make sure to avoid any of these. So let's start with a couple of growth related mistakes. So sometimes you might be setting growth targets without checking the available search volume. Meaning, is there even enough search volume to capitalize on in order to hit your growth targets? And if you don't check the search volume, you might find out the hard way. Sometimes you see people ignoring impression share metrics in auction insights in order to see if there's enough room inside of the auction to bid more aggressively and therefore increase your CTR and increase your eligible impressions and therefore click volumes, conversion volumes. If you neglect your auction insights, you might come to the conclusion that there isn't enough growth possible, even though you are already on full broad match, you're capitalizing on DSA and other tactics like that. Another common goal mistake is assuming linear growth with increased budgets or increasing targets. So you have to account for diminishing returns when you're going to scale and you want to hit your growth targets that are maybe way more aggressive than what you are used to. You cannot assume linear growth. There's always something called diminishing returns. And you also want to not forget about certain business limitations or capacity problems that might arise when you want to scale. Think about certain stock levels of your best sellers. Think about your sales team capacity. So make sure to check on these, because if you don't, you might find out the hard way that your growth targets aren't achievable. If we look at efficiency-related mistakes, we can think about optimizing for efficiency metrics without checking the impact on volumes. And this is one that I come across more than one time, unfortunately, every single year, where people start optimizing for efficiency where they completely neglect certain auction impression shares, a share metrics or growth metrics when optimizing for a higher ROAS or a better CPA. Sometimes you also see people ignoring the impact of seasonality on efficiency. For example, Black Friday or maybe certain months where you have peak season. Well, you need to take account for those seasonality when setting efficiency goals. Sometimes people overestimate how difficult it is to influence conversion rates positively. So they're like, oh man, we can make this right by just increasing the conversion rates by 50% in order to hit our efficiency targets while not losing out on growth, for example. It's quite difficult to hit certain conversion rate improvements. So big percentages improvements like 50% are, well, quite difficult to hit. So make sure to not make those kinds of mistakes and sometimes you don't want to assume that campaign types produce similar results so if you want to hit a certain efficiency across your full account you might want to be able you might be able to to hit efficiency targets inside of your bottom of the funnel campaign types like search pmx standard shopping but as you move towards the middle and the top of funnel with video display demand chain campaigns, you cannot have the same average efficiency, the same average CPA or average ROAS with those types of campaigns. You need to bid more aggressively, reach way more people in order to achieve a particular conversion or achieve a particular conversion value as a result. So you cannot assume every single campaign type produces the same results. so what makes a goal viable there are essentially a couple of key dependencies to validate and we're going to touch on every single a key dependency in the next couple of slides so the first one is market demand is there enough demand to actually achieve your growth goal performance potential what's realistically achievable based on your individual and your account specific campaign dynamics and also targets business capacity can your business handle the desired growth and this is also a key dependency that a lot of people tend to forget so let's dive in so what do we mean with market demand so with market demand we we mean available search volumes for relevant queries or available impressions to target your ideal customer profile in other networks beyond search such as display and video is your icp your target audience targetable or not and if so what can you expect seasonal patterns that may affect demand such as peak season or holiday season like black friday christmas stuff like that you also need to factor those in when checking your goals when we're looking at performance potential as a key dependency you want to check on current performance metrics what are your historical conversion rates what are your cpa and row s baselines from there if you have historical data is your new growth or efficiency goal achievable or is it is it random and is it grabbed out of the air for example competitive landscape you want to look at competitive behavior when for example changing bids so if you are looking for growth and you are going to achieve that by bidding more aggressively and improving your ad rank, so to speak, you want to check on competitor behavior. Maybe there are certain historical circumstances where you did the same or a similar thing and you maybe saw competitors maybe joining the race and basically starting somewhat of a bid war. That basically drives way less growth than when competition is remaining stable. growth limitations for example what is your maximum achievable impression share obviously your maximum impression share is 100 but is that in fact realistic and what is your impression share at this particular case is there room to grow what is your ctr potential so if you look at impressions that you might be able to capitalize on by improving your ad rank what will that mean for your impressions and your clicks by looking at your CTR as well, for example. And lastly, efficiency barriers. For example, are there certain keywords and audience targeting trade-offs that you might have to make in order to hit your growth targets? Maybe your keywords need to be more generic. Maybe you need to be using more broad keywords or broader predefined audience segments instead of your highly targeted custom intent audience segments. Maybe you need those in order to hit your growth target. And that will come at a cost when looking at efficiency. Lastly, business capacity as a key dependency, where we have resource availability, where you want to check in on the available budget of your customer, your internal team size of your sales team, for example, but also expertise. Operational capacity. Can you handle the incoming lead volume stream? Can you handle the amount of sales by looking at the stock levels of your best sellers? Are there other business model constraints that you need to be aware of? For example, product margins or profitability levels that you need to hit in order to check if your growth and or efficiency goals are feasible. So let's look at some available tools that you can use in order to check on your goal viability. So over here, you see a couple of Google specific tools that are really suitable for most of jobs where you can for example use the keyword planner in order to check on market demand and the keyword planner can essentially tell you the available search volume per period of time for example per month and you can use this to check in on okay i'm looking for this amount of growth is there enough demand in terms of search volume in order to capitalize on that you can also use google trends in order to see the market demand the trends inside of certain keyword themes or even search terms or certain topics where you can thus also see seasonality so you can see search volume trends across different time frames essentially then you also have the performance planner a tool that i personally frequently use i use the performance planner at least every single quarter for my clients in order to make a forecast about what is to what is to expect for the upcoming quarter and you can share this with your stakeholders for example so with the performance plan you can see the performance potential when changing certain dynamics of your campaign for example certain targets but also see the forecast so what can you expect in terms of growth in terms of the growth ceiling performance per different efficiency targets where you can also make certain calculations you also have the bit simulator the bit simulator can be used for performance potential where you can also see the growth potential growth ceiling performance per fishy target and also see your diminishing returns and lastly you can also leverage the auction insights for performance potential where you can also see the growth potential in terms of the room in your search impression share but also competitor levels based on historical data for example what can you expect if you start to ramp up your bids are your competitors moving with you based on historical circumstances so let's go through a couple of really simplified examples to show you these couple of tools in in action so let's say our goal which is grow focus is to generate 500 closed deals in the first quarter of 2025 for termite control for not more than 100 cost per deal so once again 500 closed deals in q1 for not more than 100 per deal so over here i made sure to select this particular non-branded termite campaign i made sure to select the forecast period q1 i made sure to use the the proper conversion metrics and over here you can see the forecast so you can see that in fact we are able to hit 500 closed deals within q1 so that's a check. And we can also see that we are able to hit those conversion volumes for an average CPA of $77. So there's room in efficiency as well. So that means that this particular Google Ads call is very well possible to hit. So you want to be aware over here that the performance planner uses machine learning and also historical data to predict future campaign outcomes. I think it's a really really really powerful tool and a lot of google specialists aren't capitalizing on this particular tool but you need to be be aware of the fact that it doesn't reflect reality 101 there's always a fluctuation it doesn't take into account a competitor behavior it tries to factor in seasonal changes but i think it isn't really good in doing so and the same applies to market shifts in market demand so you want to use the performance planner outcome as a directional guide and not your source of truth so never tell your customer that this is in fact going to happen always tell your stakeholders okay i checked i validated the goal with the tools at hand and i think the goal is achievable but things can all can always change we never know what's going to happen in terms of competitor behavior in terms of market dynamics so take this with a grain of sold always make sure to utilize that disclaimer second example is generating 25 qualified leads per month throughout the year so every single month for less than 45 euros per qualified lead so over here i checked with the google trend tool which is also available for access to see what the seasonality is for this particular client this particular client is renting out boats and obviously people are renting boats when the weather is quite nice when the sun is shining when the weather is quite nice when it's 20 plus degrees celsius over here at least in the netherlands people tend to hire a boat and enjoy themselves but you can see that peak season is in in summer and after summer and before summer so in winter and the fall the demand is basically not there so if your goal is to generate 25 qualified leads per month throughout the year you're going to have a problem and you need to adjust for seasonal demand so you need to reframe this particular goal where you need to maximize and capitalize on the peak season that is during summer. And then you need to adjust for market demand after and before peak season, so to say. Number three, increase conversions by 20% in the first quarter of 2025, year on year, for a target ROAS of at least 800% non-branded, for example. You can check with your auction insights if there is in fact room to grow in terms of impression share, for example, or in terms of ad positions. As you can see in this particular campaign, that might be your most important campaign driving all of the conversion volume, but you can essentially see that we have maxed out search impression share. And this is in fact a non-branded campaign, not a branded campaign. You can see that in 90% of the cases or more, we are having a absolute top of impression share position, meaning a top one position essentially. so there's not much room over here to grow and also if we look at competition we are just dominating the the ad positions over here so if you want to increase your conversions by 20 simply bidding higher won't do the trick because we are already maxed out in terms of impression share and ad positions our ad rank is a 10 out of 10 so if you want to increase your conversions that means that you need to look at different metrics what metrics what diagnostic metrics inside of google ads impacts your conversions well obviously conversion rate as well so you cannot easily throw in additional click volume taking into account you're already doing everything your keyword coverage is a 10 out of 10 you're utilizing broad you're utilizing dynamic search ads well in that case there's only one thing to do and that is increasing your conversion rate in order to increase your conversion volume so utilize tools and metrics like this in order to validate your goals so while individual google ads tools provide valuable insights they are most powerful when they're used together so make sure to combine the tools for instance auction insights might show room for growth but performance planner could reveal that this growth requires unsustainable cpcs where the diminishing return is relatively high so combining the two tools give gives you a more sound answer so to say so unfortunately you cannot always use google ads tools to do a reality check sometimes you need logical thinking or different tools to to validate certain goals so for example goal number four is generating 500 leads per month through non-branded search campaigns you might want to check in with your client if this is in fact because the client might have a sales team of five people where each person can handle an average of 80 leads per month resulting in a maximum capacity of 400 leads per month in that case you might need to hire or increase your lead quality instead of your lead volume so this particular goal might be unrealistic because you do not have the capacity and you might want to zoom in on lead quality instead or hiring instead in order to make up for the volume that that needs to be generated so relatively simple use your hat and use some logical thinking as well so there are also circumstances where you have no historical google s data at all and you cannot use any of these tools in that case you can still make educated guesses using keyword planner volumes and performance data from other channels because you might be doing seo your website might be live for a couple of years already google ads might not have be a priority but you can still see incoming volumes you can still work with average conversion rates based on seo for example or organic traffic and you can apply conservative estimates for your click-through rate conversion rates based on industry average or your average channel performance like organic traffic social social traffic in order to check if your growth goal for example could be feasible so let's say your monthly search volume coming from your keyword planner totals at around 100k and you expect that your impression share equals 40 that means that your achievable impressions could be 40k 40k achievable impressions of those 100k monthly searches, because you're never going to have a 100% impression share capitalizing on all of those monthly searches. Then you might be able to apply a conservative CTR of 5%. That will result in 2000 clicks per month. If you look at the conversion rate from organic, you could apply a 2.5 conversion rate based on those averages. And that will give you a projected conversion volume of 50 conversions per month this is just simple simple simple calculations that you can do that is based on educational educated guesses obviously this is going to be far far far from the truth but sometimes you simply do not have any data at hand to work with and you need to make guesses because your stakeholders well they want to hear from you if the goal is actually achievable and what they can expect so if you have to make calculations like these make sure to make a big disclaimer as well like okay these metrics are somewhat made out of thin air probably these calculations aren't going to work out so please please please use this with a grain of salt so key takeaways to end the lesson with always validate with real data if at hand use available tools they're free to use you can also use paid tools in order to make certain calculation forecasts but from my personal experience you can you can utilize the free tools that google gives you in order to make all of these validations please check multiple data sources if possible consider all possible constraints that might apply market demand performance fluctuations performance metrics and business capacity and also be ready to adjust goals but look for opportunities first so that's it hope you like this lesson i'll make sure to to link the tools below the video so you can easily access them and hope to see you in the next lesson
