# The Goal Setting Pyramid

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** goal-setting-mastery
- **Section:** Framework
- **Duration:** 14:50
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

In order to set proper goals, we've created a framework called the Google Ads Goal Setting Pyramid. You can use this Goal Setting Pyramid in order to translate business goals to proper Google Ads specific goals. It helps you to choose relevant campaign types that support hitting your Google Ads goals. And it enables you to pick relevant metrics and KPIs that you can track, that you can measure in order to see if you're hitting your goals. So this is the Google ads goal setting pyramid and basically it has five stages you always want to start at the bottom and you want to work your way to the top you don't want to miss certain steps you don't want to go from step one all the way to five you want to follow every single step in order to translate your business goal to a google ads goal select the proper campaigns select the proper metrics and kpis and then execute based on that so let's dive in the next couple of slides and where we are going to dissect every single step so you properly know how to use this framework. So you want to always start with the business goal in mind. You want to understand the business objective of your stakeholder, whether that is the company you work for or the client that you work for. You want to know their business objective. You want to basically know if they are aiming for aggressive growth or that they are focusing on certain profit levels. Because business goals define the strategic direction for all underlying marketing efforts. And Google Ads is just a tiny piece of the puzzle and it helps reaching the overarching business goal. So every Google Ads campaign that you essentially run and set up should support the specific business outcome that your stakeholder is aiming for like i said already you want to focus on either growth or efficiency as a primary goal you can obviously have both but they should be balanced but what you cannot have is maximizing both at the same time so if your customer is coming to you where they're saying like hey i want to 5x my growth next year and by the way i also want to double our efficiency that's not going to happen in most of the cases so you want to find a balanced approach between the two so be aware of that the goal that you're going to define whether that is a business goal or a google ads goal should always be smart it should be specific measurable achievable relevant and also time bound because if if it isn't smart there are loose strings attached and your goal isn't really tangible so to say so let's quickly compare growth versus efficiency goal because they do have certain impacts so if you have a growth goal the objective could be expanding market share it could be increasing conversion volumes it could be increasing revenue whereas efficiency goals are mostly focusing on optimizing returns so efficiency goals are often leading to better roi whereas growth goals are often leading to a lower ROI, but on the other hand, leading to more revenue, more growth, sometimes also more profit. The investment for growth-minded goals is relatively speaking higher because you want to bid more aggressively. You want to set up more campaigns, for example, also upper funnel campaigns like display, video, demand gen. And if you're efficiency-minded, you might have a controlled, smaller investment where you only want to focus on bottom-up to funnel campaign types for example your risk tolerance for growth reminded for growth minded goals is relatively speaking way higher than efficiency and when we're speaking metrics and your primary goal is growth your typical metrics are volume related revenue related such as well revenue conversion volume profit impression share whether when you're focusing on efficiency your metrics are usually focused on metrics like ROAS, CPA, and stuff like that. So your goals should always be smart. This applies to Google Ads goals as well. So let's go over a couple of examples of smart business goals. So I want to start highlighting three growth goals, and then I want to highlight three efficiency goals. So three examples of smart business goals that are growth focused could be increasing sales revenue by 20% in the next six months. So this is smart in all cases. Or increasing new customer transactions by 10% next quarter. Or generating 100 closed deals per month. When we're talking efficiency as a primary goal, it could be something like this. Reduce customer acquisition costs, also known as the CAC, by 10% next quarter. Or hit a blended ROAS, also known as MER, of at least 5x or 500% in the next six months, or keep CAC below $200 this year. So those are primary efficiency goals. So these are all smart. As you can see, they are specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and also time bound. So in the next step, when you have your business goals defined you want to start translating them to google ads goals because it's never going to be a 101 translation because google ads is just a piece of the puzzle in the in the full marketing ecosystem so to say so you want to have google ads goals that directly support your business objective your goals should be platform specific and actionable so you also want to translate metrics and KPIs so they are relevant for Google Ads. And I will give you some examples in the next couple of slides. You should consider channel limitations and capabilities. So sometimes Google Ads isn't really fit for hitting a particular goal. And if you see that, you might want to raise the concern and you might want to tell your stakeholder, hey, you're aiming for this amount of growth but i don't think google ads isn't isn't the perfect fit for that and you might want to also look at different sizing platforms like meta or linkedin or whatever and obviously everything must be measurable within the google ads platform you can also use third-party attribution tools for this in order to keep track of all but it's really important that you also measure everything as close as perfect when that is the case it's never the case but it should be measurable within Google Ads itself. So over here, you see a couple of translations from a business goal to a Google Ads goal. So let's say your business goal is increasing revenue by 20% in the next six months. You can translate that to Google Ads by, for example, increasing conversion value by 40% through higher conversions and AOV in the next six months. So as you can see, it's a different percentage, but that might be due to the fact that Google Ads has a way higher share in terms of revenue as a revenue driver compared to other platforms where Google Ads need to make up for other platforms and other marketing activities because you cannot validate hitting that goal by utilizing different platforms besides Google Ads, for example. So you always need to see how Google ads fits as a piece of the puzzle in the overarching goal. And that often means, well, translating the goal to what is in fact achievable within Google ads. Second example, generate 100 monthly goals. A translation to Google ads could be deliver 150 qualified leads per month, assuming a 66% close rate, if that is the KPI that you're reporting on, or that is the primary conversion goal that you're optimizing for. Number three, reduce customer acquisition costs by 10% next quarter. If you translate that to a Google Ads goal, it could be lower CPA by 10% next quarter while maintaining certain conversion volume thresholds. And lastly, which is also an efficiency primary goal, improve blended ROAS, also known as MER, to 500% next month. If you translate it to Google Ads, it could be something like optimize campaigns to 350% as next month across all non-branded campaigns so i think you get the deal so we will dive into this later on as well in step three campaign selection because you want to select campaign types based on google ads goals you want to select campaign types that directly support your google ads goals and obviously different google ads campaign types serve different stages within the customer journey and obviously that comes with different results multiple campaign types often work together to achieve goals and your campaign type selection obviously also impacts budget allocation and resource requirements resource requirements in terms of time budget obviously but also asset creation so if you're going to double in video dimension display you need to take into account that you need to generate video ads image ads and stuff like that so let's talk a little bit about campaign selection based on goal times so if your goal type is growth minded and you want to you want to achieve certain brand awareness in that case your primary campaign should be display video demand gen a supporting campaign could be remarketing if your goal type is lead generation where the focus is on growth you could have primary campaigns like search performance max and supporting campaigns could be like remarketing, display, video. If your goal type is sales, revenue, your primary campaigns could be search, shopping, PMAX that you want to really, really dive into. And supporting campaigns could be campaigns like remarketing, display, video again. Next up in step four, you want to translate everything to Google Ads specific metrics and KPIs because primary KPIs directly measure primary goal achievements and secondary KPIs set guardrails and provide diagnostic insights if you, for example, don't meet certain thresholds. So let's say your primary goal is efficiency and your primary metric is achieving a particular CPA target. Then your secondary KPI could be maintaining a particular conversion volume threshold or maintaining a particular impression share threshold. so you can use that for diagnostic insights primary and secondary kpis differ based on goal setting like i just mentioned because you have different kpis for for growth related goals and efficiency related goals so here's an example once again if you have a growth focus your primary kpi should be conversions revenue impression share your secondary metrics should be guardrails like minimum ROAS, minimum CPA, minimum profit. If you have an efficiency focus, your primary metric should be ROAS, CPA, or profit, where your secondary guardrail metric should be minimum conversion thresholds, minimum impression share thresholds, in order to be sure that your campaign doesn't dry out because your efficiency focus might be too aggressive. So your secondary metrics act as guardrails. They make sure that you hit your primary goal, but make sure you don't overshoot the corner. And I like to compare this with bowling lane bumpers. You might be aware of them if you ever went to a bowling lane. You have these bumpers for kids that make sure that your bowling ball doesn't overshoot the corner, so to say. So they make sure that your primary goal is still getting hit, but don't overshoot the corners. And that's what you essentially want. And that's what you're doing with primary and secondary metrics. So in step number five, which is the last step, you want to implement your strategy and create your campaigns. So over here, you want to have a campaign structure that reflects your objectives. You want to implement bidding strategies that align with your goal. You want to have budgets that support your priorities and your primary and supportive campaigns, and you also want to have creatives that support messaging. So lastly, you want to use the continuous feedback loop to reflect and adjust if necessary. So once you have made all of the, once you've completed all the steps in the goal setting pyramid from business goal translation to Google Ads goals, to then picking the right campaign types, to then selecting the right KPIs, to then execution. After you've done all of that, you want to always look into the feedback loop. You want to monitor. you want to analyze you want to learn and you want to adjust so you want to track kpis you want to watch trends you want to spot certain issues if they arise you want to identify opportunities so this is the monitoring phase you also want to analyze you want to compare the results to your goals are you hitting your goals you want to understand certain causes if you for example do not hit certain goals what is it caused by and what can you do you want to find patterns you want to assess impact in the third step you want to learn you want to draw conclusions you want to document your insights you want to identify optimizations and you want to develop recommendations to your stakeholders and if needed you can also adjust you want to implement your learnings you want to update strategies and tactics if needed and you want to optimize your campaigns based on what you see and based on if you are hitting your goals so there's a constant feedback loop after you have created and set your google ads goals so to say so let's wrap up so you always want to start with clear business goals you want to translate them to google ads goals you want to choose relevant campaign types according that support google ads goals you want to choose relevant metrics and kpis you want to execute by creating your google ads campaigns and you want to use the feedback loops to regularly review adjust and improve so that's it i hope this framework is somewhat helpful. In the next couple of lessons, I'm going to dissect every single step so I can give you more examples and a more in-depth view of how you can leverage this particular framework.
