# Never launch a campaign without concrete goals

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** goal-setting-mastery
- **Section:** Introduction
- **Duration:** 08:52
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

When I just started out as a junior Google Ads specialist at my first agency, a lot of the accounts that I worked for didn't have clear goals. And that led to all sorts of problems. I didn't know where my client wanted to optimize for. I didn't know if they were aiming for a particular growth target. I didn't know when to raise budgets. I didn't know what target to set. And it led to all sorts of different problems. Later on, when I started as a freelancer, I basically had one new motto that I told every single client and that is that i didn't want to enable newly created campaigns if i didn't know where to optimize for and i still use this motto to date because if you don't don't have clear goals and you don't know your customers targets you will you will lead to it will lead to all sorts of different problems and consequences in this particular lesson i want to highlight the importance of setting clear goals and targets and also the consequences of not having clear goals and targets so i would like to begin with why setting goals up front is so crucial and the first reason why you need to set clear goals is that it enables data driven decision making because by setting clear goals and targets you can make informed decisions and optimize your campaigns for maximum impact if you don't set clear goals you have no idea what decisions to make and if those decisions are in fact going to drive business results second reason is it obviously helps to measure success you as a google s specialist don't only know if a particular campaign or your account is successful or not but it also tells your customers if you are doing a good job or not so it is really important to define goals and targets so you know when to call your customer or your stakeholder to tell them for more budget because you're hitting your targets or whether you need to call them if your results aren't really solid and you might need a different tactic or strategy to start hitting those certain goals. Number three, it enables testing and optimization because having clear goals and targets allows you to optimize your campaigns based on actual performance data. And if you're tracking your conversions in a correct manner that we've also created a fundamental module for and you know your goals and targets it enables testing and it enables optimization if you have a couple of hours a week to optimize your particular account and you know you need to hit a particular goal or a particular target you know what to prioritize you know what to experiment for and when certain experiments are indeed effective. If you don't have clear goals and targets optimizing becomes a real pain because you will open an account and you will have no idea where to begin and you have no idea what the impact will be of certain optimizations because well you don't know what your client is after. Number four it facilitates communication because by setting clear goals and targets it allows you to communicate the performance and progress to all of your stakeholders involved, for example, your clients. So if you have a scheduled monthly performance meeting, then you can in fact tell your customer that you're hitting their targets or not. And what needs to be done in order to hit those targets? You can essentially create a bullet pointed list with prioritized actions and optimizations in order to hit those goals and targets. If you don't have any goals and goals and targets conversations will become really really uncomfortable and that's something you want to prevent at all costs. Number five it saves you a lot of valuable spend because without clear goals and targets you run the risk of spending money on ads that aren't effective at all wasting a lot of valuable dollars of your client's hard earn money so this is also a really valid reason and lastly it provides focus because a clear set of goals and targets provides focus as you can easily identify leaks in your google ad setup making your optimizations effective and also impactful so while the benefits of clear goals are really substantial the risks of not having them are equally significant and this is where want to discuss a little bit of the consequences of having unclear goals or zero goals at all. So let's run through all of these real quick. So the first risk that you run into is a strategic risk, because if you do not set clear goals and targets, your customer essentially could have a misalignment in business strategy and business goals. And that could lead to a lot of wasted efforts and a lot of missed objectives because if your client essentially knows or their management knows that they want to aim for a particular growth target in the next quarter and it doesn't trickle down all the way to you as a google s specialist and you do not know that you're that you need to optimize to that particular growth objective of a revenue increase of x percent the next quarter and you're starting to optimize for efficiency in that case that will lead to missed goals and that will trickle down to business results in a negative way. Second risk type is a financial risk because not setting clear goals could lead to budget waste. It could lead to a poor ROI. It could lead to inefficient spending because if you do not know what your efficiency targets are you might spend too much money on irrelevant or generic terms that do not want that do not really convert in a way that drives business business value so it's really important to also set clear goals in order to prevent budget waste number three which is really important for you as a google as specialist in order to do your work properly is operational because if you do not set clear goals you have no direction at all i recall this very easily when i just started out as a junior Google Ads specialist and I worked for clients that didn't really had clear goals. I just opened the account. I looked at the amount of hours I needed to make in order to make it able for my employer to send out the invoice for a couple of hours a month. And I just started working on random optimizations that were in fact driving more relevant traffic, such as excluding irrelevant clicks and maybe optimizing CPCs here and there to improve search impression shares but I had no clue I didn't know what to what to prioritize I didn't know what my clients were after so that leads to no direction at all it leads to random changes and basically no improvement at all maybe those little search exclusions in order to make your traffic more relevant might lead to one to five percent more incremental gains in terms of efficiency or growth but you won't you will prioritize the wrong things essentially number four stakeholder confusion because if you don't know where to optimize for and your customer doesn't know either or they do know but it isn't really clear what the goal of google ads should be then there will be a lot of difficult conversations and if you if those difficult conversations happen too frequently then that will lead to a loss of trust and oftentimes a lot of relationships just break because of a loss of trust and that often is caused by a lack of goals a lack of goal setting essentially and you can easily prevent that by having clear growth and efficiency goals so you know what to optimize for and you know what your clients find important to know so you can always recall to that particular goal in terms of communication in terms of Google Ads optimizations and stuff like that. And lastly, performance, which is obviously the most important one, because if you do not have clear goals, you do not have any success metrics to look at, and you do not know if any optimizations that you do are adding value to the account and adding value to the business. So these are all very big consequences of setting no goals or unclear goals at all so this is why i live by this particular quote never ever enable a campaign when you don't have crystal clear goals always make sure that you and your customer are aligned on what to do and what to aim for so you can essentially so you can essentially drive business success
