# Start with your business goals

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** goal-setting-mastery
- **Section:** Framework
- **Duration:** 22:37
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

All right, now it's time to dive into the actual framework and to dissect every single step. And we're going to start with the first step, which is defining your business goals. So in this lesson, you will learn what your role as a Google Ads specialist is in the full business goal setting process, key questions to ask stakeholders, validating and refining business goals, and a couple of ways to be a strategic partner. So over here, a quick recap of the Google Ads goal setting pyramid. we're going to start with defining the business goal, translating that to the Google Ads goals, picking the right campaigns, picking the right metrics and KPIs, and then executing based on that. So as a Google Ads specialist, we don't create business goals. That is primarily the responsibility of business owners and stakeholders, potential the business owner that you work for, or the client that you work for. However, we as Google S specialists can play a crucial role as a strategic advisor in the full process. So don't neglect this step. Make sure to participate in the goal setting process so you can think along with your customers, stakeholders, etc. So what is your role as a Google S specialist in this particular instance? You want to act as a strategic advisor over here you don't want to be the goal setter because you're not the business owner you're just a consultant you're a advisor in this case you want to ask the right questions and think along to help your strategic partners or your stakeholders in order to set the right goals you also want to challenge assumptions when needed so if you see that your stakeholder is making assumptions, make sure to challenge that, make sure to ask the right questions. You also want to provide data-driven insights in order to help them create realistic business goals that you can then translate to Google Ads goals in the next step. You want to help validate business goal feasibility, viability, essentially, unrealistic. So you want to help validate the goals. You will also want to guide realistic expectations. You want to test if goals are feasible. You also want to test if they are realistic and you as a Google ads specialist has access to a lot of data. We also have access to a lot of tools that can help us with this particular step. And lastly, you want to bridge the business goal of your stakeholder to Google ads based on the capabilities of Google ads and what is in fact feasible and realistic, so that is what you want to be as a Google ads specialist. when determined goals essentially. So don't set the goals yourself but help your stakeholders in order to set realistic but also challenging goals that can help them move forward. So before we dive in I want to quickly address that you don't want to forget that there's more out there than just Google Ads. Obviously Google Ads is capable of many many things but it cannot be used as a magic wand in order to hit all business goals. It simply isn't good at all of the things. So sometimes you need SEO. You also need content marketing. You might need email marketing, affiliate marketing, social media, and a wide range of different channels in order to reach your business goals. And yeah, you want to not forget that we are inside of a Google Ads bubble. So make sure to also challenge your customer from that perspective, because sometimes other channels are simply a better fit in order to reach certain goals or where Google Ads is just a smaller piece of the puzzle instead of a way bigger piece of the puzzle, so to say. So let's dive in. So the first step is to ask the right questions. And this is going to be somewhat technical because to ask the right questions and to also do something with these answers, you need some basic business knowledge. But I'm just going to give you a couple of examples of questions that you can ask if you are unsure about what certain things mean make sure to go to investopedia or go to google and try to find the answer about certain variables metrics and what you can do with it so let's start with e-commerce and let's start with asking a couple of growth related questions after this i'm going to give you some efficiency related questions for e-commerce. So growth related questions for e-commerce could be, what's your revenue growth target? What's your sales volume target? What's your target AOV, your average order value that you're looking for? What's your available marketing budget? Are there targets for new versus returning customer splits? Are there new markets or customer segments you want to enter? Are there seasonal peaks that we need to be aware of and we need to plan for? Are there certain inventory capacity limitations that we need to be aware of because these all influence the growth potential by looking at efficiency what is your contribution margin target what's your target blended ROAS or media efficiency rate MER across all channels how how far can we push in terms of efficiency versus growth what's your maximum acceptable new customer acquisition cost what's a minimum acceptable new customer ROAS? What's your target customer retention rate? So these all factor in, these are all basically influencing the efficiency of the account and also the growth in a way. So make sure to ask questions like these that help challenge your customer to create realistic and viable business goals. For lead gen, when we're looking at growth related questions, you can ask questions like what's your lead volume target what's your revenue target for closed deals converted leads what's your target value per closed deal the average deal size of every single closed deal do you have targets for different lead types or quality levels are you going to work with qualifying leads like marketing qualified leads sales qualified leads closed deals if so what are the particular growth targets for a particular time period what's your available marketing budget what's your lead capacity how much can your sales team handle are there new markets or customer segments that you want to enter in the next time period for example next quarter are there seasonal peaks that we need to plan for when we're talking efficiency what's your maximum acceptable customer acquisition cost for converted leads what's your target lead to sale conversion rate so what's your target lead to opportunity conversion rate for example lead to qualified lead if your customer is working with qualified lead metrics and what's your target opportunity to sale ratio when we're basically looking at qualified leads to close deals and it's very very important to to know about these numbers and also report on them because these influence the customer acquisition cost a lot and it will all trickle down to your target cpa or target cpl depending on how you look at things what's your target sales cycle length what is your target lead response time so you can basically monitor the internal sales team how quickly they pick up the phone and start calling and reaching out to your incoming leads that you have generated as a google ad specialist so these are very very important questions to have answers to you when you're determining lead gen specific goals looking at sas examples of growth related questions over here what is your target arr the annual recurring revenue what is your target mr the monthly recurring revenue growth what's your target number of new subscriptions for a next amount of time period for example next month next quarter this year next year doesn't really matter it's up to you in what time frame you're looking in do you have specific product tiers you want to focus on growing maybe you have a free tier a standard tier and an enterprise tier maybe you want to focus on the enterprise tier if that's the case you might need way different strategies and tactics to to hit those particular goals do you have a target customer type ratio for example are you looking for a particular percentage enterprise customers versus small medium businesses? And if so, do we need to make certain adaptations? And what does that mean to things like campaign selection, budgets, bids? How do we reach those types of customers? So it all trickles down and it all comes down to growth in this case. Looking at efficiency related questions, what is your target lifetime value to customer acquisition cost ratio, LTV to CAC ratio, which is a very, very important metric for SaaS businesses. What's your maximum acceptable CAC payback period? How long does it take for basically the acquisition cost to pay itself back in terms of, well, customer value, so to say? Does it need to be paid back within a year or within six months? It's a really important efficiency metric to have in place. What's your target CAC by subscription tier? What's your target churn rate? what's your target expansion revenue rate what's your target free to pay conversion rate from free trial to maybe an enterprise plan or free trial to a small beat a small medium-sized business plan there are so many options over here these are just a couple of examples but these are the core questions to ask per vertical per goal type so to say if it's a growth related question or an efficiency related question and you want to have answers to both tiers you want to know what the growth targets are you also want to know what the efficiency targets are you also want to define what the primary goal is going to be is the customer going to be heavily growth minded is the customer going to be heavily efficiency minded so you can determine your primary and secondary goal that we have discussed earlier so if your data warehousing and reporting is on point you can bring a lot of data to the table as a Google Ads specialist. And these data points can be used to identify certain focus areas and check the goal feasibility. So here's a couple of examples of data you can bring to the table when asking and answering the questions that I just went over. You can bring historical performance insights to the table. It could be Google Ads specific, but you can also send over channel performances if you have access to a well-configured G4 property or maybe you're working with a third-party attribution tool like TripleWheel, NorthBeam, Rocketbox, HIROS doesn't really matter in order to give the customer the data they need and that they can use in order to set realistic goals. You can also bring market intelligence to the table. For example, competition levels, auction insights inside of Google Ads, peer trends that you can reach out to your Google account manager for. I shared a screenshot earlier. benchmark industry data for example profit metrics e-commerce trends in order to tell your customers what the average trend in terms of profit revenue conversion rate is inside of your benchmark vertical customer behavior insights search behavior search term trends device behavior customer journey touch points path to conversion all data points that you can bring to the table that can help you and your customer to formulate certain business goals or to help them with formulating proper goals. You can also bring opportunity analysis and forecasting to the table. For example, growth potential in terms of search volume trends by looking at Google Trends or the Performance Planner, potential geo-expansion, other channels besides Google Ads. Maybe a low-hanging fruit is expansion to marketplaces. And since you're already doing product listing ads through shopping, maybe the next easy step to expand through other channels is utilizing the same feed with minor changes of the feed and rolling it out to certain marketplaces, efficiency opportunities, ways to spend automation opportunities inside of your Google Ads account, but also beyond Google Ads, diminishing returns. So to what point can you grow aggressively and where is your diminishing return ceiling where you are basically going to heavily spend for just 1% to 2% more incremental conversions, but also forecasting. So what do you expect as a Google Ads specialist to hit in terms of conversion volumes, revenue, profit, if you're tracking those metrics inside of your Google Ads account? if you do you can run certain performance planner simulations and those can be used in order to give your client somewhat the idea what could be possible with the current efficiency target so to say so there's a lot of data that you can essentially bring to the table that can be used to help your customer to define proper goals so let me run through some examples of data and data visualizations that could become extremely handy if you are going to set new goals for example for e-commerce profit metrics benchmark data this is what profit metrics shares every single month the turnover the gross profit but also conversion volume per month per year and they basically have an index month so you can easily see the the month-on-month change but also the year-on-year change and this can be used in order to see what the overall e-commerce vertical is doing could become really handy market intelligence so i shared this one earlier as over here you can see the peer set data that i have received from google where you're seeing that we are losing out on click share a year on year versus our most important peer set our most important competitors So this is market intelligence based on basically auction data and click share data that you can bring to the table like, hi guys, when we're defining new goals, we might have to take into consideration that we are losing out on click share and that we're getting outspent by our direct peers. So we need to take that into consideration when defining new goals. Performance insights, for example, lifetime value cohorts. So you can, for example, also run a cohort to see what the average lifetime value is. So you can use that for answering certain efficiency related questions to see what your CAC payback period is or how much you're willing or available, sorry, able to spend in terms of acquisition costs. LTV to CAC ratio. So this is a screenshot that I took for one of my bigger clients, where you can essentially measure the branded, non-branded, and combined LTV to CAC ratio, which is really, really poor for the Netherlands, as you can see over here. But if you have access to this data and you're defining new goals, this is really, really crucial to use as insights and to also help validate certain business goals. So you don't want to just throw data around. you want to look at what is needed so what are the questions you're you're looking to get answered and what data do you need in order to answer those questions and to also define proper goals based on for example market intelligence historical data to make it feasible so you want to make sure that everything adds value so now it's time to make things concrete so after you have answered all of the questions you made sure to add and send over all of the very valuable data, you can start formulating your business goals and make them smart at the very same time. So here's an example of a smart goal, which is specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and time-bound. For example, we want to increase non-branded online purchases by 25% in Q4 with a minimum ROAS of 400%. This is really smart goal why is it smart it is specific because it's focused on online purchases it is measurable before because it quantifies the target which is a 25 online purchase increase in q4 it is achievable because it considers past performance and budget available budget it is relevant because it is aligned with broader business growth objectives and it is time-bound it is set within q4 so always make sure to make your goals whether they are business goals or google ads goals smart because smart goals can be actually used and can be looked looked at like okay did we reach our goal or not if not what went wrong can we find any reasons can we adjust it for the next quarter etc etc etc so here are some examples growth related smart business goals are increase sales revenue by 20% in the next six months, increase new customer transactions by 10% by next quarter, generate 100 closed deals per month. When we're looking at efficiency, smart formulated business goals, you can think about reduced customer acquisition costs by 10% next quarter, hit a blended ROAS of at least 5X in the next six months, or keep the customer acquisition costs below $200 this particular year. All smart related business goals. So setting ambitious goals is great, but they do need to be realistic and achievable. And before you as a Google S specialist, but also your stakeholder as a business, commit to any goals, you always want to verify if they're actually achievable, given your market size, the competition levels, the available budget, platform capabilities, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. So I made sure to create a lesson about goal validation in this particular module that you can check out in order to do a reality check to see if your business goals are in fact achievable and also your Google Ads goals that have been translated from your business goals. So here are some potential red flags that you want to be aware of in this particular stage, because I see it every single time again and again, where businesses, stakeholders create really great looking business goals but they are completely unrealistic or they have insufficient budgets for achieving those goals. They want to 2x the growth for next year but they don't have any additional budget. They have misaligned timelines. Maybe they want aggressive growth too soon that isn't really achievable in any way. Maybe they have conflicting objectives and I find this one of the most important red flags and these are your stakeholders that are essentially aiming for massive growth and at the same time doing that for the same efficiency targets or sometimes they even want to increase and improve the efficiency targets while increasing growth that is basically unachievable and unrealistic unless you are a very very very good specialist and your business or your stakeholder is going to do a lot of different things that is going to result in a double whammy where they are in fact going to grow growth and also improve efficiency. But there are a lot of moving parts in order to do that. And it's most of the time it is unrealistic. So this is oftentimes a huge red flag for me if I hear potential customers or customers talking about this in particular. And lastly, sometimes there are simply technical limitations or other limitations that you need to be aware of that could also throw sand in the engine so to say you always want to document the full process and have access to all of the documentation so you actually know what have been discussed how the certain goal has came together so you can also look back at that later on so when documenting the process you want to summarize the agreed business goals in writing, or you want to have access to the documented business goals. Like I said earlier, you as a Google ad specialist do not set business goals, but you can act as a strategic advisor. But make sure that you know about the business goals, otherwise you cannot properly think along or translate the goal to Google ads. You also want to document assumptions because oftentimes when you're formulating goals, you are going to make assumptions. make sure to highlight them be critical be completely honest outline dependencies define success metrics that you're going to use in order to track them in order to tell if you're going to hit the goal if you're on track or not on hitting the goal you want to set review periods so how often are you going to review the overarching business goal and see if it's still realistic see if it can be hit and you want to establish a reporting framework so what i like to do is i like to translate the business goal to a google ads goal and i like to showcase that business goal inside of my lucre studio reporting templates where i want to zoom in on the growth goal and the efficiency and it doesn't really matter if it is primary secondary i want to have both of the metrics in place in order to see if i'm on track on hitting a particular growth goal and while maintaining a particular efficiency rate or the other way around so it is really important to also track these metrics real time and make sure to address them in every single monthly performance meeting or every single week depends on the volume you're pushing so in the next step in the next video we're going to translate the business goal to a realistic google ads goal and this is the goal that you as a google ad specialist are need to hit essentially so let's continue to the next video and hopefully see you there
