# Choosing the right conversion action for your goals

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** goal-setting-mastery
- **Section:** Introduction
- **Duration:** 15:45
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

In this lesson, I want to dive into choosing between growth and efficiency. In this lesson, you will learn why it's important to have a clear focus, whether that focus is on growth or efficiency, why maximizing both simultaneously rarely works out, how to find a good balance between the two, and when to potentially shift your focus and rebalance your goals. So, it's important to know that growth and efficiency conflict with each other. you cannot maximize them both at the same time it simply doesn't work that way and success comes from understanding your primary focus whether that focus is on growth or whether that focus is on efficiency because a clear focus enables a focus strategy and a better resource allocation in terms of budget bits time etc you want to think about growth and efficiency like a weighing scale when one side goes up, the other side comes down. See it like a weighing scale like this. So if we focus on growth, the volume will be very high, but your efficiency will be relatively low. Because in order to achieve certain volume goals, you might need to bid more aggressively. And bidding more aggressively generally leads to lower efficiency, a higher target, a higher average CPA, or a lower average ROAS. The other way around when you focus on efficiency your efficiency might be relatively high where your target CPA might be relatively low and therefore your average CPA as well and your average ROAS might be relatively high but that obviously comes with a price and that price essentially is a lower volume because in order to achieve your higher efficiency goals, you might need to bid more conservatively. And that leads to lower eligible impressions, lower CTR, lower click volumes, etc. It all trickles down. So in most cases, you don't want to be looking for the extremes. You don't want to be pushing for maximizing growth or maximizing efficiency. At the other hand, you want to find a balance between the two. So it's rarely 100% growth or 100% efficiency. Sometimes there are cases where you want to be relatively aggressive and it is your goal, but it isn't a healthy goal because if you do that for too long or you are looking for the extremes, it comes with a price as well. And generally speaking, it's not a great price looking at the extreme. So if you're pushing for 100% growth and you're bidding relatively aggressively. In that case, your profit might be zero or your profit might be negative. You might be losing money. On the other hand, if you're focusing for 100% efficiency and you're relatively conservative in terms of bids, you might lose out on impression share. You might lose out on click and conversion volume and your campaigns dry out. So it's about finding a balance between the two and when you find a good balance you essentially have a primary focus and a secondary focus so your primary focus guides your overall strategy and tactics and your secondary focus sets protective guardrails that's how i like to call them so if your primary focus is growth you want to ramp up you want to hit certain revenue targets for the next quarter or you're looking for a particular qualified lead volume for next month that could be your primary focus your primary focus could very well be growth but your secondary focus should always be efficiency in that case and also the other way around and basically that leads to protective protective guardrails in order to not overspend or in order to meet certain volumes or meet certain impression share thresholds so it's not about choosing growth and efficiency and going all in on one of the two it's about finding your primary focus that guides strategy and tactics while your secondary focus sets guard rails so this is what i mean so over here you see a goal which is generating 25 qualified leads per month throughout the year for less than 45 euros per qualified lead your primary goal over here, at least that's what I made of it, is generating 25 qualified leads per month because this particular hypothetical client is focusing on growth. They want to grow to 25 qualified leads per month, but their secondary focus, their guardrail is the efficiency, which is for not more than 45 euros per qualified lead. So see how this works. You can also do it the other way around where you prioritize efficiency. So you prioritize CPA, ROAS, profit, et cetera, where your secondary goal, which is growth in that case, sets guardrails for certain impression share thresholds or conversion volume thresholds. So this is a balanced approach where you have a okay volume, which you have validated, which is actually achievable for your efficiency, which is 25 qualified leaves per month in this case and on the other hand you also have an okay efficiency which is also validated and in this case you are still growth minded which is your primary goal and that sets your strategy and tactics but you're not forgetting about the efficiency because you still want to make money in most cases. So this is just one of the examples that I want to give you. So setting a balanced goal between volume and efficiency isn't guesswork at all it's a data-driven decision and you need data to validate your goals for example do volume goals match available demand in terms of search volume for example are your efficiency targets realistic by looking at what you did historically so i made a lesson called goal setting reality check that you can find in this particular module as well in order to validate if your goals growth minded or efficiency minded is actually achievable so but what should your primary focus be there are signs when you can see and determine if your customer your client should be growth focused or efficiency focused and these are signs that you can spot as a google ad specialist it doesn't mean that that should be the focus of your client because your client is still in charge and your client or your stakeholder is the one that is deciding upon if you want to be growth minded or efficiency minded but i want to go over certain signs that you can spot so if you when you could focus on growth there are certain signs like strong unit economics where you have very high healthy margins for example where you have a strong product market fit with a lot of demand where there are significant market opportunities right now that you want to capitalize on maybe one of your biggest competitors quit and you can fill in that gap and basically extend your market share in that case you might want to focus on growth you might want to you might have operational capacity to scale so maybe the internal sales team has capacity in order to to follow up more incoming leads or you might have secured funding a secured funding round or capital reserves that you can deploy in terms of ad spend in order to grow more rapidly. On the other hand, there are also signs to focus on efficiency. You might have a very tight cash flow or limited budgets. In that case, it isn't really helpful to focus on growth because you have to be very mindful about your spending and what you're getting out of your budget. You might have a pressure on your profitability levels where your unit economics are very poor or business in general isn't really going the way you or your stakeholder wants it to be. In that case, you might want to focus to efficiency instead of growth because focusing on growth generally leads to lower profitability levels, generally leads to a higher investment upfront. And in those cases, it isn't really helpful to focus on growth. And you might have a saturated market position. You might have relatively high customer acquisition costs that you want to bring down to a more healthy level in that case you might want to shift away from growth and more focus on efficiency so these are all signs that could determine if you should focus on growth or efficiency so when looking at the right metrics you can notice many signs yourself as a google s specialist but like i said already most of it comes down to regularly checking in with your stakeholders they are the ones formulating the overarching business goals, if they're doing their job correctly. And together, you can translate that to Google Ads goals and then decide if you want to focus on growth or you want to focus on efficiency as a primary goal. And based on your primary goal, you immediately have your secondary goal, which are your guardrails as well. So sometimes you have to shift focus and adjust the goals based on certain dynamics. So when you see certain shifts happening inside of your account you might want to open the discussion and this happens a lot of times with my clients personally when i see certain performance drops caused by competition or i see conversion rate conversion rate drops because of certain adjustments made on the on the website or certain popular products that are really in demand being out of stock plummeting the results well in those circumstances, you might want to be very sharp because you might want to open the discussion when shifting between growth and efficiency or shifting between one pillar more aggressively or less aggressively. Because obviously, if your primary focus is on growth, you can still decide to be less aggressive in terms of the growth that you're looking for or more aggressive. It doesn't mean necessarily that you need to switch and counter to the other way, well that's a little side note so you might want to shift from efficiency towards growth when there is a strong efficiency baseline when there when you see new market opportunities that you want to capitalize on when you have additional budget to spend or you cannot simply hit your available daily budgets and you want to capitalize on that because you want to spend them on that case you might want to be more aggressively and you want to shift towards growth or a little bit more towards growth. Maybe there are certain competition levels that are increasing fiercely and you need to ramp up your bids in order to keep the same impression share levels and make up for the volume that otherwise is lost. On the other hand, you could also shift away from growth to efficiency. So you could shift more towards efficiency if your growth targets are actually achieved. So let's say you're hitting your 25 qualified leads per month for less than 45 euros per month and you're already on target on the second half of the month in that case you could over deliver in terms of growth but since you are already hitting your growth goals you could also consider increasing your efficiency level so since you already brought in a lot of qualified leads in that case you might you might be able to bring in the same amount of qualified leads that still hit your growth goal which is your primary goal but for less cost per qualified lead that could be a discussion obviously the outcome could also be to just keep on delivering and over deliver in terms of the amount of qualified leads but as you can see these are things for for a discussion with your stakeholders some other points are for example when you have business capacity limitations and certain pressure levels for example when your sales team cannot handle all of the leads that is coming in you might want to shift away from growth and shift your focus to efficiency as a primary goal or when there is profitability pressure so quite logical but if you see these shifts happening inside of your account you might want to you might want to ring a bell and you want to open the discussion with your stakeholders so as a google ad specialist you often spot signals first inside of your google ads account that suggest a strategy shift is needed so you don't want to wait for clients or stakeholders to raise the issue as a google s specialist you are a consultant you want to actively approach and think along with your stakeholders and you want to open the discussion when you see certain key indicators changing so for example if you see your lost impression share due to ad rank rising rapidly because of a fierce competition increase you might want to open the discussion and suggest rebalancing your goal and shifting away from efficiency to growth to maintain a market share. And it's not necessarily shifting a 180 degrees from efficiency to growth, but what I mean with this is being a little bit less efficient and shifting your balance away a bit more towards growth and rebalancing your primary and secondary goal, so to say. so here's a case where competition inside this particular vertical increased heavily the past couple of months and we had to rebalance our goals so we had to shift away from efficiency to growth so it's not a full-off full-on situation but it's rebalancing the weighing skill so to say so we want to be a little bit less efficient and a little bit more aggressive So we can grow or in this particular case, make up for the volume lost. And we had to do this to maintain market share and also maintain conversion volumes because we are simply getting outspent by competition. So as you can see, CPA levels were relatively constant throughout the year, but we started to increase CPAs at around July, August 2024 because we had to. And you can also see that CPC started to rise rapidly towards the end of the year. And we had to do this because we saw our conversions dropping. Obviously, this particular case is very seasonal sensitive. But when we did year-on-year comparisons, we did in fact see quite the loss in terms of conversion volume, but also click volume. And that just wasn't healthy. So we had to do something. and you can also tell by looking at the search impression share metrics because well search impression shares started to drop in June and then we decided to ramp up again and it increased from July and we were able to make up for some of the search impression share lost but still not the way we wanted so luckily now we are some more months ahead past November 2024 and things are starting to turn but we had to we had to rebalance goals because if we didn't if we didn't raise cpa targets and therefore didn't increase our bidding power and therefore didn't increase our ad rank and therefore maintaining our ad position we were simply getting outspent and pushed away and you can see this by looking at this particular visual that we received from our google account manager from dublin so not all google account managers are bad the ones that are sitting in dublin that you have working for you when you are hitting certain spend levels are really, really good. And they have tons of data to help you out with. They actually send over this particular visual that basically shows the year over year click share of my particular client versus direct peers, the peer set of the most important competitors in this particular vertical. Well, you can see that we as a blue line were dropping quite heavily throughout the last quarter of 2024 so we started to to dive and you can see that the peer set was in fact stable or even growing so the mismatch between us and the peer set was growing and that's generally a sign that competition levels are growing and we had to do something and we decided to ramp up the target cpas we decided to reinvest some of the profits in a more aggressive way in order to make up for the the the fierce competition so to say so there's another one so in this particular case i rebalanced goals so i shifted between growth and efficiency due to limited budgets so this particular client hit their efficiency goals which is their primary goal in a very short time span after restructuring the campaigns, but they didn't have the budgets yet to scale. They had to ask for more budget internally and they just couldn't say, okay, you're hitting the efficiency targets, all is looking great, and here's an unlimited amount of money to spend on Google ads. Generally speaking, that's what I like to work with. But in this case, we constantly had to ask for more budget internally because it was all budgeted already for the complete year. So the budget had to be grabbed from a different channel or a different part. And that took some time. So we were balanced the goal by reducing the CPA targets to increase growth and efficiency within this particular limited budget setting. And we did that in the week of 8 January, below the first dotted blue line. So over here, you can see that we started to decrease the target CPA in order to basically pull in more traffic for the same amount of cost. So as you can see, the cost remained the same. But since we are lowering the CPA targets, we are lowering the average CPC. And since it's a basic equation, you are able to then bring in more clicks and therefore also more conversions, as you can see. So the conversions rise rapidly. We also saw a slight dip in search loss impression share due to limited budget. after decreasing the efficiency targets but we were still losing out on a lot of impressions because we just had so much traction over here and then luckily after the second blue dotted line at two the week of 5 February we were able to ramp up budgets so as you can see budgets increased and on that point we started to grow in terms of volume again and you see that search loss pressure due to a limited budget also decreased heavily from the first couple of weeks so after these particular weeks we when when we didn't when we weren't able to grow because the search loss and pressure due to limited budget were in fact set on zero from that point on we started to ramp up the target cpa again and we went back to the primary efficiency goal that we were after in order to scale scale and bring back the focus to efficiency once again so this is how the two balance and how you can essentially shift your focus from left to right and rebalance based on all of the variables that are at hand and that you need to work with so be flexible and work with what you have and make sure to make recommendations to your stakeholder with what you can do so your primary focus impacts a lot. It impacts how your campaigns are run. It impacts the KPIs you need to prioritize. So let's take a look at what the impact of your primary goal could be on campaign management. Well, if you have a primary growth focus, your campaign management should be focused on broader targeting, broader keyword targeting, broad match, broader audience segments. Maybe you to shift away from custom custom segments to maybe predefined in market audience segments you might want to a bit more aggressively with a different bit strategy obviously you have higher budgets to play with and you can obviously also launch more campaign types if you want if you are after growth inside of the top of the funnel the middle of the funnel for example you might want to launch display video demand gen all sorts of campaign types that you can use in order to achieve your growth primary goal on the other hand if your primary goal is efficiency focused you should aim for a tighter targeting for example a tighter keyword targeting spot you might want to you might want to ditch the broader audience segments and you want to aim for specific custom intent audience segments that are really efficiency minded you might want to focus on best performers you might want to bid more aggressive sorry more conservatively you might have a stricter budget allocation and since you're efficiency focused you might want to focus on a proven campaign type in the bottom of the funnel such as search or performance max if your target setting is relatively competitively so your primary goal whether that is growth or efficiency matters a lot and it really sets the scene of how you could do your campaign management so if you have a client that is quite aggressively and want to achieve certain growth goals in that case you have way more things to do inside of your account and it's generally speaking way more fun to work for a growth focused client than a efficiency minded client because if your client has profitability pressures and you have to focus on efficiency, generally speaking, the opportunities inside of Google Ads are relatively limited. And there's not really much that you can do in order to grow beyond their primary efficiency focus. So it also has an impact on primary and secondary KPIs. So if you are growth focused, your primary KPIs should be conversions, revenue, impression share if you're looking at a market share perspective and by looking at secondary metrics which are your guardrails you still have to take into account a minimum ROAS that you have to hit in order to maintain certain profitability levels or a maximum CPA that you cannot that you cannot overshoot in order to maintain profitability levels or a minimum profit level if you're tracking profit inside of your account as well. On the other hand if you're efficiency focused your primary kpis should obviously be roas or cpa profit and your secondary guardrail kpis should be minimum conversion volume thresholds in order to maintain certain volumes inside of your account and not overshooting efficiency because if you're doing it if you're doing too much of efficiency you will lose out on too much of click volumes conversion volumes impression shares and that will hurt your performance in the long run. So therefore you want to set those KPIs as guardrails. So let's wrap up. Key takeaways. You always want to choose a primary focus and you want to translate that primary focus from the business goal of your stakeholder. You then want to set appropriate guardrails. So when you have your primary focus you also have your secondary focus. You have your primary KPIs and you have your secondary KPIs. You want to monitor both aspects. And obviously you also want to monitor all of the variables inside of your account to proactively open the discussion when you see certain shifts happening inside of your account. For example, like you saw in my case, when competition increased heavily and my client started to lose out on impression shares and that hurt conversion volumes and incoming revenue a lot. so you want to be sharp open-minded and you want to actively open the discussion when you think it's needed and lastly you want to be flexible and you want to adjust budgets and you want to adjust goals when needed so make sure to also tell your customer this when determining goals you want to tell them okay we now have a clear primary focus secondary focus these are the goals and targets these are the kpis and the target kpis but if certain variables change inside of the account we might have to reassess and we might have to adjust the goals that we just determined so make sure that your client is aware of this and if you do so i think you're doing a great Essay Consultant.
