# Choosing the right KPIs

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** goal-setting-mastery
- **Section:** Framework
- **Duration:** 21:23
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

In this lesson, we're going to be discussing choosing the right KPIs for the job. In this lesson, you will learn how to select KPIs that align with your goals, understanding primary versus secondary KPIs, setting up proper measurement frameworks, and some common pitfalls to avoid. So, now that you have translated your business goals into your Google Ads goals, and selected the right campaign types in order to hit your goals, it's now time to choose the right metrics and KPIs in order to track success. so once again here's the google ads goal setting pyramid and right now we are in the fourth step in the previous three videos we have discussed determining business goals translating them to google ads goals and also selecting the right campaign types and now based on your goals and based on the campaign types that you have selected we're going to be addressing metrics and kpis that you really need to track in order to see if you're hitting your goals so why is it so important to choose the right kpis kpis are your in-platform north star for tracking success and optimizing performance the misaligned kpis lead to wasted budgets and also unclear results or not having results at all kpis should inform what to measure where to optimize and also how to communicate success with your stakeholders so there are essentially three core kpis when it comes down to well defining kpis we've got your primary kpis that directly measure your goal achievement so this is your google ads primary goal so to say then you have your secondary kpis these are in fact used to set performance guardrails that basically track your secondary goal so if your secondary goal is to hit a particular efficiency target then secondary kpis could be kpis like CPA, ROAS and stuff like that. And lastly, we've got our diagnostic metrics and those diagnostic metrics help you identify issues and opportunities inside of your Google Ads account. So let's dive in. So at first we've got your primary KPIs and your primary KPIs must align with your primary Google Ads goal. It is used for major optimization decisions and also used for key stakeholder reporting metrics so these are the most important metrics to track so let's say you are having a growth focused primary goal then your primary kpi could be conversions revenue stuff like that then we have the secondary kpis and secondary kpis are used to set performance guardrails like minimum conversion volumes that you need to hit in order to not dry out on volume or revenue or for example a maximum cpa that you cannot really exceed even though you are really growth minded and grow focused as a primary goal it is used to validate optimization decisions and it can be used as an early warning system and lastly we've got remaining diagnostic kpis and diagnostic kpis are essentially used to identify what works and what doesn't work so what drives performance and what doesn't drive performance inside of your Google Ads campaigns. They enable proactive optimizations inside of your Google Ads account. They can guide day-to-day decision making. They show you where to dig deeper. So I really use diagnostic KPIs in order to see, okay, what kind of KPIs are causing a certain increase or a certain drop. You can use those diagnostic KPIs to dig deeper and find the additional or find the problem at hand. And they highlight optimization opportunities inside of your Google Ads account. So when we look at growth versus efficiency KPIs, let me give you a couple of growth-related primary goal examples and examples for when you have an efficiency-related primary goal. So let's start when you have a growth-focused primary goal. So when we look at primary KPIs, you can think about conversions, conversion value, revenue, for example. Secondary KPIs could be hitting a particular minimum ROAS that you cannot fall down on. Otherwise you will be losing out on profit or a maximum CPA or maximum customer acquisition costs or minimum profits that you need to get in order to still hit your overarching business goals. Even though you might be growth focused over here and your focus is on maximizing conversion volume or maximizing conversion value, you might still have to take into consideration particular efficiency targets like a minimum ROAS, maximum CPA, et cetera. Diagnostic KPIs could be Google Ads specific in-platform KPIs like impressions, CTR, CPC, costs, CVR, conversion rate, AOV, average order value, impression share metrics, and also quality score. So these are all used to diagnose certain issues and diagnose certain optimization opportunities, for example. When you have an efficiency related primary goal, your primary and secondary KPIs are completely different. So your primary KPIs could be your target ROAS, average ROAS, or CPA. So in this case, you're really efficiency focused, where your secondary KPIs, otherwise known as guardrail KPIs, could be metrics like minimum conversion volume or minimum conversion value. Because it often happens that people forget to set secondary KPIs like conversion volume, conversion value, and their campaigns completely dry out because their efficiency targets are just too extreme and too aggressive. So that's why it's really important to also have those kpis at hand and also looking at the diagnostic kpis over here they are the same as the growth related primary goal diagnostic kpis so these are once again your in-platform metrics so if we fall back on the the the flow chart of how every single metric is related to each other inside of google ads that we've discussed earlier inside of the basics module you can see that everything is intertwined interconnected so if you see certain issues with your conversion value and you're not on track on hitting your growth target for example you can use this flow chart in order to see where the issue might might be or where the opportunities might be so for example the conversion value mainly is affected by your average order value or your conversion volume, because conversion volume times AOV means your conversion value. So if here is a problem, you might have to zoom into your AOV or your conversion volume. If the conversion volume is maybe the biggest cause of a lagging conversion value that is not hitting your growth target, then you might have to look into your conversion rate or the amount of clicks maybe you are falling behind inside of your click volume maybe that is caused by a relatively low ctr how come is your ad copy not compelling enough is your ad rank too low where your competitive metrics like your search and search impression share metrics are relatively low and pressing on your ad positions so to say so this flowchart can be used in order to find the problem but also opportunities inside of your Google Ads account and inside basically your goal tracking process. So let's look at some simplified examples per vertical how you can use primary KPIs secondary KPIs but also diagnostic KPIs. So let's start with e-commerce where the primary goal is growth focused. So the business goal of this example is increase revenue by 20% in the next six months while maintaining profitability levels. The translated Google ads goal could be something like increased conversion value, which is an in-platform metric by 40%, accounting for different channel contributions as well, while maintaining a 300% non-branded ROAS. This is a great smart, smartly created Google ads goal, which is growth focused while still addressing the efficiency as a secondary goal. So your primary KPIs could be conversion value, conversion volume, AOV. So these are the primary KPIs that you need to, that you need to focus on really, really often and really solid. Your secondary KPI is efficiency focused because there is a minimum non-branded ROAS threshold that you need to achieve. So you need to also keep an eye on your profitability. And then you have your diagnostic KPIs, which are your in-platform KPIs that basically can be used to find problems, issues, and optimization opportunities. For lead gen, we have a different growth focus primary goal. So the business goal over here is to double sales pipeline value from 2 million to 4 million in the first half of 2025. The translated Google Ads goal is increase monthly qualified leads from 100 qualified leads to 200 qualified leads in the first half of 2025 for a maximum of $600 per qualified lead. A great, smart, formulated Google Ads goal once again. So since this one is growth focused, and once again, this is hypothetical, the primary KPIs are conversions. and if you're tracking qualified leads as primary conversions inside of your google ads account then those can be used as your conversions as your primary kpi then you also want to really keep an eye on your lead to qualified lead rate because we're tracking qualified leads as a primary primary conversion over here and yeah what factors your qualified leads your lead to qualified lead rate your lead to opportunity rate essentially really depends and impacts the qualified leads that you are able to get and then also the conversion value from the qualified leads so you can track for example the potential deal size of your qualified leads as your north star for your pipeline value so to say so you can use that as primary kpis and obviously you need to make sure that you're tracking these inside of your google ads account and luckily we've made a very extensive conversion tracking module where you can find out how to do exactly that then you have your secondary kpis and your secondary kpis over here should be efficiency focused because we need to track the cost per qualified lead the in-platform cpa if our primary conversions are qualified leads because they cannot exceed the $600 maximum cost per qualified lead. So this is our guardrail once again. And then we have diagnostic KPIs, which are essentially the same as the prior example as well. And lastly, we've got an efficiency focused SaaS goal. So the overarching business goal of this hypothetical SaaS business is improve CAC payback period from 12 to eight months while maintaining certain growth targets where the translated google ads goal is reduce cost per trial by 25 percent while maintaining a minimum amount of 200 trials per month so once again smart formulated easy to track on different different different angles so our primary kpi over here since it is a primary efficiency goal is going to be our cpa the cost per trial because this is could be the most important metric for this particular business since it's efficiency focused the secondary kpi however are growth volume related metrics like conversions if you're tracking trials those should be inside of your primary conversion column but also your trial to paid rate which is a really important metric to track in order to see if You're bringing on qualified trials, so to say, because if your trials aren't qualified in any way, and the trial to pay rates is trash, that could hurt your overarching Google ads goal and your overarching business goal. So lastly, we've got the same diagnostic KPIs once again, in order to see where the opportunities arise and where problems may arise inside of your Google ads account. So I would urge you to always look at your KPIs from different angles. because instead of Google Ads, you have different layers, a different hierarchy from your account all the way to deeper levels like the keyword level, ad level, and you need to look at your KPIs from different levels, so to say. So make sure to break KPIs into actionable layers. For example, use your account overview as a big picture overview. Are you on track on hitting your primary goal? Are you on track on hitting a certain conversion volume target or revenue target? Are you hitting your efficiency target if that's your primary goal? For example, a particular minimum non-branded ROAS or maximum CPA. Use your campaign view, your tactical view to see what is driving performance and what is not driving performance in order to see where you need to focus your optimization efforts maybe you need to reallocate budgets in order to make sure that your primary goals are getting hit and then also use your ad group view and also deeper level views reports for a granular view and this is being used for example to ask questions like hey which ads which keywords which audience segments work and do not work where do we need to optimize so make sure to see it as in hierarchy and don't start inside of your account on the deepest level start your way on top and work your way down so i like to use looker studio dashboards in order to paint the big picture overview so here's a template that i personally use for myself for my freelance clients i made sure to template this to a ppc mastery control center dashboard where you can find the same metrics the same layout and the most important metrics over here are essentially the monthly growth target and also the efficiency target so when opening the looker studio dashboard i can immediately immediately see am i on track on hitting my monthly growth target am i underperforming overperforming in this case i'm overperforming and am i hitting my efficiency target. So the efficiency target over here is 400% minimum, and I'm on track with a 503% ROAS. So this was a really good month. And as you can see, we are over-performing. We are on track. So easy to see, easy to spot where you need to focus on when opening the account. And you can also send yourself automated messages every single Monday, for example, giving you the growth target progress and the efficiency target progress for every single account that you manage in order to see where you need to pay attention towards then you have your tactical view and your tactical view is your campaign overview where you can easily see okay what's driving a result what's not driving result do i need to zoom in on certain areas certain campaigns certain campaign types do i need to reallocate budgets do i need to adjust bid strategies do i need to adjust targets or the other 100 plus optimization that you can possibly do so this is the deeper level starting on the campaign level and this is your tactical view and then you have your ad group level and beyond which are your granular views over here you're going to really dive deeper into seeing okay i've made sure that my campaigns are properly targeted my campaigns are generally speaking on target but there's one campaign in particular that's not driving a result let's dive in so let's open ad groups let's open deeper reports like keywords ads search and reports device segments and other things that possibly influence performance which are your diagnostic kpis and let's see where the problem might be and where we can prioritize optimizations So here's a quick tip that I want to give you next to the overarching account overview dashboard that I have for every single client that I work for. I also use a personalized warning system. So personally speaking, I'm using TrueClicks. They have a great performance gallery and performance setup where you can easily set up notifications if certain fluctuations appear. For example, if your conversion volume on a weekly level drops by X percent, or if your costs increase massively by an X percent in certain campaign types or certain campaigns, these are really, really, really good and handy to have in place because these act as well, personalized warning systems, and they give you a notification through mail. And you can even automate that further to whatever you like to see where you need to pay attention. So if you're on track hitting your goals, and if not, if there are any problems and where you need to pay attention when opening the account. So you can immediately go from a tactical level to a granular view in order to solve for certain problems or make high impact optimizations. Instead of using a tool like TrueClicks, you can also create customized scripts because right now with automation tools like Clot, ChatGPT, it's really easy to create scripts yourself based on metrics that you find important instead of scripts you can even use rules instead of your google ads account that are somewhat similar to these kinds of rules however these are more customizable i think so make a warning system so you get warned when you are not on track hitting your primary and secondary target kpis but also to warn you when certain fluctuations happen on a daily basis weekly basis monthly basis whatever so here's another important note that i find really important important google ads kpis can be skewed due to over attribution or certain data gaps because tracking isn't perfect unfortunately and often you miss the full picture so hitting google ads goals doesn't really mean that you're hitting business goals as well so you want to cross-check your google ads kpis with also business level kpis in order to ensure that not only the metrics you see in google ads are in fact somewhat correct and you're heading into the right direction but also checking in on other channels beyond google ads that might not be your responsibility but you can still check in on them in order to see if the overarching business goals getting hit so for example if we go back to this particular case and i'm still behind on hitting the overarching business goal while i'm still over hitting my my targets by a mile in terms of growth targets and efficient target by just solely looking on google ads my client might still be unhappy because he's not hitting the overarching business goals that they agreed on as shareholders for example in that case you can proactively tell your clients like hey we are on track hitting the google ads goals but we have some room left as you can see we are hitting our efficiency targets over here that we have agreed upon if you lack conversion value if you lack revenue if you lack certain profits we can turn on the turn turn turn on the notch a bit a little bit more aggressively in order to make up for the relatively poor performance of other channels and obviously that also works the other way around so that's what i wanted to to tell you so key takeaways of this lesson make sure to align kpis with your primary focus growth first efficiency use primary kpis for direct goals and secondary kpis for guardrails use diagnostic kpis to uncover optimization opportunities and you can also prioritize them when you have your metrics in place and regularly review kpis across your account campaign and also granular levels and lastly make sure to also cross check on the business level so that's it i hope to see you in the next lesson
