# Translating business goals to Google Ads goals

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** goal-setting-mastery
- **Section:** Framework
- **Duration:** 19:24
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

In the second step of the Google Ads goal setting pyramid, we're going to translate the business goal to a Google Ads specific goal. And that's what we're going to address in this particular lesson. So in this lesson, you will learn why translating a goal is crucial, how to map business goals to Google Ads objectives, and lastly, setting realistic targets and choosing the right goal types. So here's a quick recap of the goal setting pyramid. In the last video, in the first step, We addressed setting up and determining business goals. And in this step, in the second step, we're going to be translating the business goal to a Google Ads goal. So let's dive in. So translating business goals to Google Ads goals is crucial. It ensures what stakeholders want aligns with what Google Ads can deliver. And that's really important to understand. So over here, you can see the differences between business goals and Google Ads goals. business goals are set by stakeholders focus on business outcomes are often channel agnostic so they do not care about what channel will drive their goal they're just thinking about business related numbers and business growth so to say and they're often long-term oriented on the other hand when we look at google ad specific goals they're often platform specific goals they focus on campaign performance. It contributes to the greater good which is your business goal and you generally see that you're focusing on more immediate metrics inside of the platform instead of just thinking long term. So let's go through the key principles. So Google Ads goals must directly support business objectives. They should contribute to the greater overarching picture which is your business objective. Google Ads calls should be platform-specific and they should be highly actionable. You should also consider Google Ads limitations and capabilities and everything must be measurable within the Google Ads platform. That doesn't mean that you cannot also measure impact in third-party applications like Triple Whale, Northbeam or Rockerbox in order to paint a more independent picture of attribution, but you still have to make sure that your conversion tracking is on point and that you can basically measure all of the important metrics inside of your Google Ads account because it is what you're going to work with and you're going to use that data in order to instruct the algorithm, for example. For example, instructing smart bidding or setting bids. So let's go over a simplified example. So over here, we're going to translate a business goal to a Google Ads goal when taking into account the full picture. So the starting point is January, 2025, where the total revenue that is coming in per month equals $1 million. Google ads is attributing or contributing $200,000, which is 20%. Organic is contributing $400,000. Social is contributing $250,000 and email contribution is $150,000. So as you can see, the Google Ads contribution equals 20% in total. So the business goal based on this starting point is going to be that the stakeholders want to increase the monthly revenue from $1 million to $1.2 million by June 2025. So there are essentially five months in order to increase the monthly revenue from $1 million to $1.2 million structurally. And that essentially means that the total growth that is needed equals $200,000. And that growth needs to come from somewhere. It needs to come from Google Ads. It needs to come from organic, email, or all of the other channels that basically contribute to the current revenue and this particular revenue monthly target. So after careful analysis, you and your stakeholders concluded that organic is near saturation because you have very solid organic results high inside of the search engine result pages. And there isn't really much that you can do in order to increase your positions and increase organic traffic and organic revenue. There's lots of growth potential within Google ads without seeing diminishing returns. Social also has a lot of untapped potential, but it is a relatively new channel so you still have to be somewhat aware of not overshooting the corner so to say and also email has lots of room to grow because there is no marketing automation in place there's no nurturing in place so it's also a lot of untapped potential over there so after running the numbers you came up with the following channel contributions in order to come up with that $200,000 growth that is needed to hit your overarching business growth of $1.2 million by June 2025. So based on all of the numbers and the conclusions you made, you essentially came to the conclusion that Google Ads is able to contribute $80,000 of that $200,000 in growth, essentially and that equals 40% of the total growth that is needed. Organic can contribute 50k, social can contribute 40k and email can contribute 30k and that all equals to 200,000 dollars. So when we break this down from overarching goal to channel specific goals among which are Google ads specific goals then we can see that in order to increase the current monthly revenue from $1 million to $1.2 million, which is an increase of 20% or $200,000, we can achieve that by basically growing every single channel. But they cannot be grown in a similar way. Because like we said earlier, organic is near saturation. Google Ads has a lot of room to grow. Social has a lot of room to grow, but social is relatively new. And email also has a lot of untapped potential because there's no marketing automation in place or email nurturing, for example. So based on this business goal, we need to grow Google ads with 40% because currently the Google ads contribution of that 1 million equals $200,000, which is 20%, and in order to grow to 1.2 million, we essentially need to increase the the current google ads revenue or conversion value by 40 percent equals 80k in dollars where the target is going to be 280k and based on that particular breakdown the google ads share or the google s contribution of that 1.2 million target is going to be 23 percent instead of 20%. So as you can see, the contribution per channel is going to change according to the viability, according to the challenges that you may face, the opportunities that are there. So therefore you always have to look at things at a broader picture because it isn't as simple as just raising, increasing revenue by 20% across all the channels that you basically have. It it doesn't work that way. So you need to break things down. So 20% increase in overarching business revenue, but we do need to have a 40% increase of conversion value in order to hit our overarching business goal. Do you understand? So as you can see, the percentage channel contribution has changed and a direct one-to-one translation rarely works because of different constraints. So now what does this mean for Google ads? Like I said earlier, instead of just having a 20% increase of Google Ads revenue, we now need to hit a 40% increase of, well, Google Ads conversion value and therefore revenue in order to hit our overarching goal because other channels cannot grow as quick and Google Ads need to account for that particular challenge, so to say. So the business goal is going to be increase monthly revenue from 1 million to 1.2 million by June, 2025. And we're going to translate that to a Google ads goal by increasing monthly conversion value from 200K to 280K by June, 2025. So for the sake of simplicity, this growth goal does not include a secondary goal, which is your guardrail that focuses on efficiency. But ideally, not ideally, it's in fact a must, you want to also include your efficiency targets in this particular Google ads goal, because yes, you can achieve monthly growth and monthly conversion value growth, but at what cost, a lot of times you need to, you need to, you need to use your efficiency in order to increase your growth. So your efficiency will decrease and you need to somewhat have a guard reel to make sure that you're not going to lose out on profitability levels or different efficiency metrics that you track to to fly out of the corner so to say so make sure that you're in fact formulate a primary goal and a secondary goal and it depends on your business if your primary goal and secondary goal is growth or efficiency focused so be aware that platform metrics like in platform google ads metrics are directional indicators be aware of this they are not the absolute truth always validate with back-end data that you have access to if your e-commerce client runs on shopify for example or your legion customer worked with with hubspot or salesforce and adjust when needed because there's never going to be a one-to-one comparison between the back-end data and the data you see inside of google ads you can also consider using independent attribution tools for painting a full in independent unbiased picture like triple wheel north beam rocker box hybris etc and that could help understand how everything is going to get attributed in a more fair way so be aware of this so now that we have basically formulated our google ads goal and we have translated our business goal to the google ads goal we can start with our little game so as you can see we need to increase the conversion value value which is the revenue in this particular case by 40 percent now how are we going to do that as you can see the conversion value value is going to be going to be influenced by a lot of different metrics it's going to be influenced by the alv which is the average order value of every single conversion so you can increase the conversion value by making sure that people buy more for example you can optimize for bundles or upsells or you can prioritize certain products that are having a higher average order value so to say you can obviously also increase conversions which is the most obvious one and how do you increase conversions you increase conversions by increasing your conversion rate and or increasing your click volume how do you increase your click volume you can increase your click volume by increasing your ctr by writing more compelling ads or simply bidding more aggressively making sure that your ad rank is essentially going to get improved making sure that your ad positions is going to is going to be higher that will lead to more impressions a higher CTR and therefore more clicks so as you can see it all trickles down so you need to start with your end goal in this case you need to start with your conversion value and in that case you need to make a game plan in order to see and know how you're going to increase that particular conversion value and it's based on your unique situation and the variables that you can control in order to do just that. It's very important to also understand over here that not everything comes down to you as a Google Ads specialist. In order to increase the Google Ads conversion value by 40%, you can, for example, also ask the stakeholder, for example, your customer, to think along with how can we increase the average order value? How can we increase the conversion rate in order to boost the conversion volume or increase the AOV in order to increase the, the conversion value, um, bottom line. So it doesn't mean that you as a Google ad specialist need to reinvent and need to get answers on all of this. It is often a collaboration, but you need to know where to look and what metrics to influence in order to, to, to, to get your goal, to get to your goal. So not everything comes down to bids and budgets because sometimes you can expand non-branded campaign coverage by adding more keyword themes. You can leverage machine learning based products like DSA and Broadmatch to increase coverage. You can expand your product targeting by adding more products to your campaigns. You can add AOV boosters like bundles, upsells, product recommendations, cross-sell, like I just mentioned. You can launch new campaign types to expand your reach and broaden your funnel. You can expand to new audiences by testing new audience segments, enabling of optimized targeting, working with more broader targeting segments, et cetera. You can create or optimize the landing pages to increase the user experience and conversion rates. You can expand to new market segments, geographies to target, to increase your total addressable market. And there's so much more to do in order to achieve your goal. So this is just, just a short list of what you as a Google ad specialist can do in order to achieve your particular Google ads goal, some things you can do as Google S specialist, for example, is really easy to leverage machine learning products like RSA, smart bidding, DSA, broad match in order to increase the total addressable market, increase the keyword coverage and stuff like that. But sometimes, like I mentioned, we need help from our stakeholders as well. For example, to create AOV boosters like bundles, upsells, product page recommendations like hey you are watching this particular product right now but we've got like a better product over here obviously it's a little bit more expensive but these are the additional benefits that you will get by purchasing this item over the other so there's a lot of different ways that lead to roam how they set it so make sure to to start with this particular overview see what metrics need to be improved and then think about how you're going to achieve that by yourself and then also together with your customer. So let's go over some additional examples of translating business goals to Google Ads goals. So let's start with two growth goals and then touch on two efficiency goals. So let's say your growth goal is increasing revenue by 20% in the next six months. Your Google Ads translated goal might be increasing conversion value, which is an input platform metric by 40% in the next six months. And you need to obviously validate and check that with your backend data in order to see if the numbers indeed match and you're on track of hitting your business goal. Another example, generating 100 monthly deals. Your Google ads translation might be deliver 150 qualified leads per month, assuming a 66% close rate or reduce customer acquisition costs by 10% next quarter, which is your overarching primary efficiency goal translated to Google ads, it might lead to lower CPA by 10% next quarter while maintaining conversion value volume. And the last example, improve MER, media efficiency rate, or blended ROAS to 500% next month. If you translate that to Google ads, it could be something like optimizing campaigns to a 350% ROAS next month across all non-branded campaigns. So, these are just some examples of how you can translate business goals to Google Ads goals, just to get the point straight. So, always make sure everybody is aligned over here because that is really, really important. And that's why I find it so important to already make sure to think along when determining business goals and asking the right questions. because when you do so you make sure that everybody is aligned not only your stakeholders but also different platform specialists like for example meta ad specialist or marketplace specialist email marketers every single channel often has their own set of goals and you need to be aligned people need to know what is achievable in their at their playground so to say so make sure everybody is aligned so document google ads goals and assumptions define success metrics set clear expectations plan review frequencies agree on data-driven check-ins and adjustment triggers be prepared to be flexible and establish a reporting framework when determining google ads goals always always always verify if they are in fact achievable because if you don't validate you're going to mess up a lot of times because you want to check if your growth targets your efficiency targets are feasible and what the impact of those goals will be on your secondary goals and if that is still going to make sure that you will hit your guardrail thresholds so to say so also remember there's more than google ads alone because like we said already we have a lot of tunnel vision as Google ads specialist, there's way more than Google ads out there, so make sure to take that into account. Key takeaways, Google ads is one piece of the marketing puzzle, know its place. Different channels have varying growth potential, so expect uneven growth and make sure to translate your business goal unevenly or accordingly to what every single channel can basically attribute or contribute, which is a better word business goals need to translate to platform specific capabilities and platform metrics aren't truth there are directional indicators you always want to verify if you are in fact on track on hitting your business goal by using third-party attribution tools by looking at the back-end data the the closer you are to the truth to the actual order data of your customer the the better you know the more you know if you are in fact on track monitor progress and adjust strategy when needed to stay on track and the next step will be from here to translate all of this to proper campaign types and from there we're going to pick the right kpis success metrics and then we're going to execute We'll be right back.
