# How to create and upload Page Feeds using CSV

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Dynamic targeting
- **Duration:** 09:21
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

All right, welcome in another video. And in this video, I want to illustrate you how you can upload a page feed manually by yourself by using Google Sheets. The first thing that you want to do is to head over to Google Ads. And from there, you want to select tools and business data. In the older interface, if you're still in there, basically you can go to tools and settings and then straight to business data from out the header. Once you're in business data, you want to make sure that you're in data feeds and from there you want to hit plus page feed from here you can basically download a page feed data template which is a csv excel download file i would not recommend doing this since it is prone to error due to formatting issues so that's why i have prepared a google sheet for you that you can easily easily copy and fill in with your own page URLs and custom labels. Make sure to name your data feed, give your data feed an appropriate name because this name will show up in your Google Ads campaign configuration. So make sure to be really concise. This is just an example that is real simple since there are just 100 plus different use cases how you can do this for your unique situation. This is just to show you how you can do this yourself at the source you want to select google sheets you can also upload a excel csv file if you do prefer doing this i would recommend doing this through sheets if you want to do this manually you can head over and select http or https if you want to upload a if you want to basically synchronize a data feed from your feed management tool and that's what we are going to use in the next video because that one is highly important to use for changing feeds and that's especially important for econ players so right now we're just going to do this manually if you hit google sheets you want to make sure to add this user to your google sheet and give it all the rights if you have done so you can hit link an existing google sheet So over here, we should be able to see the example. And let me show you the example real quick. So this is the Google Sheet that I have created based on the template that Google is giving us. And you can create a copy of this document below this video. It is really important to know how this file works. It is simple in essence, but it is also easy to mess up. So we have two columns. We have column A, page URLs, and column B, custom labels. You want to use or list all of your page URLs in the first column. So these are all the pages or all the URLs that you want to upload to Google Ads. And in column B, you want to label these URLs. These labels can be used as a standalone targeting label in your dynamic targeting campaign. but you can also create a combination of certain labels so what you can do for example you can create a label like single underscore product so google ads knows what kind of urls are single products product detail detail pages and then you can basically combine this with a second label where you're saying hey i want to target all single products but these urls also need to be top sellers so that's where you can combine different labels together as well and that way you will miss out on certain page urls that do not have all of the combinations of the labels you're targeting if that makes sense so if you were to target single products plus top sellers then you will only target this one and you will not target this one because it doesn't have a label top sellers. If you only were to target one custom label, single product, you were to target both of these page URLs. Hope that makes sense. So if you want to use one label only per page URL, that's completely fine. In a lot of cases, just one label is good enough. In that case, you just want to list one value. So without any symbols, except for an underscore that I like to use instead of a space in order to in order to prevent any formatting issues or whatever so in this way we're just going to upload one custom label if you want to upload more custom labels per page url you need to separate them using a symbol i'm not sure what the english word for this is but it is a little dot with a little comma below so you want to separate the values using this simple symbol and it looks like this category underscore page then the symbol and then shoes and you want to do this for every label that you want to upload so over here on row number four example number three we have four labels we have USA, Nevada, Las Vegas and five stars so all of these labels are going to be uploaded separately and linked to this specific page URL. If you do not use this symbol as a separator, so to say, Google S will just use one label and combine these, or it will give you an error if you have not formatted this correctly. So that's it basically, that's all you need to do. So you can create all kinds of combinations, for example, for e-commerce, if you were to upload category pages, you can use just one label or basically two labels for example label one is category page for all of your category page urls and label two is the category itself for example dresses t-shirts tank tops shoes so you can easily make these combinations for product detail detail pages as an e-commerce player you can for example upload all of the product pages and use three or four different custom labels for example single underscore product the brand name of the of the product the top level category the second level subcategory so that way you can easily create a lot of custom custom combinations that you can use in your google ads targeting so that's that's a great way to use in your for your dynamic targeting so that's enough said about the combination and the combination you can make so now let's hit apply because we've already linked this page feed template and it just needs a little time based on the extensiveness of the file to apply it inside of your account so you just need to wait a little bit and then it should pop up it's taking longer than normal but hey i guess that's google we all know the loading times within google that can be quite slow i guess it's almost finished okay okay i'm going to yeah there we go all right we now have an applied page feed example so as you can see over here the type is page feed the status is pending we see the name of the file and if we select the file we can see that the page urls and the custom labels have been uploaded properly over here you can see for example one we have two custom labels and you can also edit these labels inside of the configuration so if you hit edit two different custom labels so this this is perfectly fine if you want to add a value you can do it from here or you can upload a new file if you want it's up to you over here we should see four labels you would say nevada las vegas five stars and in the last column we see the status which is pending right now because google has to scrape the urls and it has to approve them to be used inside of your dynamic targeting you can also create a schedule if you want since this is a google sheet you can also schedule this so this is great for automations in my opinion in the next video we're also going to schedule a https file which is basically a hosted csv file that is being hosted on one of our feed management tools these values are now available inside of Google ads and in a future video, when we are actually going to start crafting our campaigns, we can then select the page feed and select the dynamic targeting options. So that's it. Hope this was informational. If you have any issues, problems, you know where to find me. We're always happy to help you out. See you in the next video.
