# How Dynamic Ad Targets work

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Dynamic targeting
- **Duration:** 15:00
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

So in this lesson, we're going to talk about how dynamic ad targets actually work. So in this lesson, you will learn how they work and what happens in the background when you submit certain pages, when a certain ad needs to be crafted by Google, and which dynamic targeting options are available, which one to use, and which ones to definitely not use. So let's zoom in and start with some basics first around how does dynamic targeting actually work. So when you submit your dynamic ad targets, Google's crawlers will find text that can be used for headlines relevant to the page's content. So when you submit URLs through the URL targeting functions or a page feed, Google already knows the content about your pages and the content they can use inside of the ads so when someone searches on google with terms closely related to the copy of those pages on your website google ads will use that copy as input to select a landing page from your website and generate a clear relevant headline for your ad so the most important signal for dynamic search ads among the many used to generate your ads headline is the html title of your page. And this is the actual page title in SEO terms. So if you are going to leverage this function, make sure to create an export of the pages you're about to target or the pages that are eligible to be targeted. And then look up the pages titles to see if they are relevant to use inside of your DSA copy. So here's a small tip, actually a big one. To increase the effectiveness of your DSA ads, headlines, we recommend to adjust your website headlines. So limit the page titles and headlines. The headlines are the headline one, headline two, headline three, HTML tags on your website to 60 or 90 characters and work with unique call to actions. Maybe you've seen very long ads, very long headlines come across inside of the search engine result pages. And these are the result of a highly optimized page titles and of headline components of the searches of the pages that is being targeted by the DSA ad. So if you are able to write fully fully extended headlines to the 60 and or 90 character max or have a great variation about the two then your google ads headline might look very impressive you can actually write very highly attractive headlines that are sometimes even more attractive than your rsa item combinations Since the RSA item combination headlines always have a 30 character max limitation. So you always have to be short. But if you are using a DSA headline, then that specific headline can be way longer and it can be one sentence, one short sentence that can, well, contain a better, can contain better copy. can even contain a very attractive call to action and of course, obtain some interesting keywords as well. So if you want to do this and if you want to create an optimization of your HTML titles, page titles, make sure to always check in with your SEO specialist and or CRO specialist because these changes obviously have an impact on your organic listings and conversion rates as well or they could have an impact. So always double check this with your direct colleagues or other stakeholders that are involved. But do not underestimate this optimization since it can do wonders for your CTR and also query matching. So let's talk about the dynamic targeting options you have to target the actual pages you want to target with your DSA. So the first option we have, and this is the most popular one, I reckon, is the all web pages function and with this function you target every website page of your domain that is discovered by google and the keyword here is discovered by google since not all pages are being indexed by google and if you are going to use this function then google is only looking at the indexed pages of your website so keep that in mind the second dynamic targeting option is a page title option so you can also target web pages that contain specific words in the page titles for example if you want to target specific pages that contain a specific product or a product category or a service and you can group all of those pages together by just creating a targeting filter based on the page title that contains certain words or a certain word so that's an interesting targeting option as well. But this is also limited once again to the indexed pages by Google. Number three is page content. You can do the same just like page titles, but then to page content. So you can target web pages that contain certain words that you can specify. So let's say on all of your subcategory pages that you have created around Samsung OLED televisions, you have definitely inserted a keyword like or keywords like samsung oled televisions so you can target all of these pages that contain those specific words you have to be real careful using this option since google will basically look at the content of your whole website so they will also look at stuff in your header or stuff at your in your footer so if you have created a great category footer that has direct hyperlinks to Samsung OLED television, smart televisions, 4K televisions, 8K televisions, but the page itself is about just Samsung televisions or maybe even a direct competitor like LG, then this targeting option can mess up big time. So I think this is somewhat tricky to use. i do not use this at all except for exclusions and we will dive into the exclusion part in the next lesson number four is landing pages from your standard ad groups and this is the somewhat more safer option and using this option basically targets all web pages that you are currently running search ads against so if you have a very built very clear build out search campaign structure where you're using multiple category or services pages then by using this option the dsa targeting will basically target the same pages you're targeting right now it is also limiting to just those pages since if you were to pause or not include specific landing page in your search ads your rsa ads for example then your dsa ads will not get fired on those missing pages so keep that in mind to be clear i do not really like any of these dynamic targeting options at all i want you to know that they are available and what you can do with them but i think there are better ways to target your your pages through dynamic targeting and those are basically on the next slide so we have a couple of more dynamic targeting options and then i will tell you which one which are the ones that i prefer so number five is categories based on your website content google ads creates a targetable categories of all of the pages of your website so google scrollers are very intelligent nowadays and for google it's quite easy to create a very clear structure of your website so if you want to go this route then basically google has grouped a certain page together under certain categories and subcategories but you have to trust google with this function since google can throw in additional pages after you have targeted certain categories and not all times google is very accurate and is still missing a lot of pages that are relevant to specific categories. Or sometimes the categories do not make sense at all. So I like to stay away from this targeting option. Number six is URL targeting. So by URL targeting, you can target specific URLs with the URL equals or URL contains function. And this is where it gets very specific and very controlled. So you can tell Google to only target specific page URLs that contain specific words or contain a specific word so let's say you want to target all category pages that contain samsung televisions then the only thing that you have to do is basically look look up your url structure that basically that could start with slash categories slash brand slash samsung slash televisions and you can then use that structured url snippet to target all of the pages that are similar and that contain that snippet. So if the URL structure contains with additional subfolders slash 4k televisions slash 1080p televisions slash OLED televisions, then Google will target all of these pages that are relevant to your specific URL contains function. If you want to be highly specific, you can also just create a list of all of the pages you want to target and use the url equals function this will make sure that you will target all of the pages that you have found and that you have decided are relevant to target but this one is a little bit dangerous in my opinion as well since if the url url structure was to change or if new pages were built that you didn't didn't know about then you will miss out on a lot of urls as well so this is not something that I like to use. I definitely like the URL contains function, but the URL equals is a little bit less bulletproof, so to say. You have to be wary of the possible consequences of using this function. Lastly, we have the custom label dynamic targeting option. And this is where you basically ditch the Google indexed pages that all of the previous dynamic targeting options were we're based upon and this is where you basically upload a page feed yourself through the business info so basically you upload a page feed or multiple page feeds to create a list of urls that you possibly want to target with specific custom labels attached to organize them and then you can target specific custom labels in your dynamic targeting that refer to all of the page URLs that are linked to that same custom label or custom labels. So let's say you are a big e-com player and you want to upload all of the product URLs, then you can easily create custom labels that are mapped to the corresponding URLs. So let's say you are uploading a page URL that is a product page of a specific Samsung OLED television in a very high definition, then you can create a custom label that contains one or multiple labels for example single product samsung television and then the type for example oled and then in your dynamic targeting option you can then say hey i want to target all of the page urls that have a custom label, a link to them that contains Samsung and OLED, for example, if you want to target all Samsung OLED page URLs. So that way you have great control over the page URLs that you want to feed in to the system. And you can also automate this on the backend by creating a specific DSA page feed that is created by your feed management tool and is being updated every single night based on the products currently available based on other dimensions for example you want to exclude certain product urls if they are running low on stock or that are sold out so you have way more control over this feature than all of the others combined so to say so that's why i am really fond of this specific targeting option so these are the ones that i like so i definitely like the url targeting euro contains especially and the custom label a feature be my guest using the other targeting options but yeah once again these are the ones that we prefer and that i personally like as well yeah hopefully you got some insights from that as well you can also use the page feed function for lead gen advertisers. So I basically use them for all of my accounts where you can either automate it through a feed management tool or automate it through Zapier, for example. So for my bigger lead gen clients that sometimes have a great database of blog titles or blog pages as well, I also tend to create page feeds for those kinds of informational pages. So they're also up-to-date inserted inside of their Google Ads accounts so that I can also target specific blog pages for example within my DSA targeting. Yeah make sure to check this out and we will dive in on how you can actually create a static page feed upload using a CSV import but I'm also going to show you how you can easily or quite easily automate this and update this using a feed management tool and this is especially interesting for e-comm players so let's continue with the next video and hopefully see you there ciao
