# Creating your new Search campaigns in Google Ads Editor

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Campaign structure
- **Duration:** 32:11
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

Welcome back, and in this video, I'm going to show you how you can quickly create your new search campaigns by using the Google Ads Editor. So, in the last video, we have constructed our search campaigns, where we have basically decided how our campaign structure, ad group structure, and underlying keywords should look like. So, that is basically, for the lead gen and SaaS example, the following worksheet. so what we want to do right now is we want to copy over the keywords campaigns and ad groups towards the google ads editor so essentially we want to upload these three variables to create a beginning of our campaign structure inside of the google ads editor after we have uploaded all of the keywords we will make sure that our match types are set and go that some of The basic campaign settings are set properly that we will touch on in the next video. So in the next video, we will zoom in on the campaign settings specifically. But for now, we're just going to use some defaults in order to make and finalize the upload. But this is not only the thing that we're going to do. We're also going to upload some example ads. So I have created some example responsive search ads for the following campaigns, ad groups, landing pages. As you can see, I've created up to 15 headlines and four description lines and one final URL, including the paths. So even though RSA writing and RSA best practices hasn't been a subject of this course, I still wanted to include two in this video because I think it's important for you to see how you can put everything together. and once again we will zoom in on the RSA creation and RSA best practices together with all of the responsive display ads and responsive video ads and responsive dynamic ad creation in a future detailed course or even a future module so stay tuned for that for now I just want to use this as an example to make the story complete so to say so what we're going to do we're going to copy over the following sheet and this will copy over all of the data fields. I'm just going to copy this over to Excel real quick where I'm going to paste all of the columns and values without any formatting. Then I will make sure to delete all the unnecessary columns. So I only need the keywords the campaign names and the ad groups the landing pages are aren't needed for over here as well since we aren't going to leverage final url on keyword levels we are going to need the landing pages for our responsive search ads but i will show you that in a bit for now these are the variables that we need keywords campaigns and ad groups and basically we can delete the first row because we want the changes inside of the Google Ads Editor to begin with the actual values. So we are going to go ahead and delete the naming of the columns. So there we have keywords, campaigns, and ad groups. Now we can head over to the Google Ads Editor. So if you haven't used the Google Ads Editor at all, I will make sure to link a download link of the Google Ads Editor. What you need to do is basically to link your own Google Ads account. and by linking your account you will be able to access all of the google ads accounts that your google account has access to so if you were to click on accounts you will get a big list of all of the accounts or just one account if you have just one account then you have to make sure to always get the recent changes so i always select the more data and all campaigns and let it run for a while this is just an empty dummy account of ppc mastery but if you have a very big mature account already this could take take a while before it is downloaded since this is quite empty or we have incorporated some of the older examples it shouldn't take really long and i've already done this so i'm just going to go ahead and cancel this if you have downloaded all of your historical data and current data you should move to keywords and targeting and from there you should be able to see keywords and why is that if you take a look at the hierarchy the keyword hierarchy is basically the lowest hierarchy and by uploading the keywords and by referring to the campaign name and the ad group name google will automatically search for the campaign and the ad group in your account if you have already a campaign and ad group in place then it will add the keyword to that specific existing campaign if it is new it will just create new dimensions so to say so let's copy over these values head over to the google as editor and from there click make multiple changes so since we have already copied over all of the variables we can now click on paste from clipboard and over here you want to select the correct dimensions so it is keyword campaign and then ad group there we go so now we have all of the values in place that we want to upload in fact there are 76 rows you want to make sure that your data includes columns for campaigns and or ad groups and select this function otherwise it will if you're trying to upload items to your existing campaigns and you're referring this to campaigns and ad groups then it will mess up and it will create duplicate rows and stuff so always make sure to select this option okay then we want to hit process now you can see that we have made a couple of changes so we have created four campaigns brand crm knowledge base and marketing automation with 22 ad groups and inside of those 22 ad groups we have 76 keywords we can now finish and review the changes so first thing we want to do is to hit keep so the blue highlights go away and then you want to make sure to take a look at your keyword match types first because if you do not upload a match type as a column google will automatically well use a broad match match type as you can see over here like i have said in the best practices in keyword targeting i do not like to leverage broad match when my campaigns are new and not fully and not driving on a target cpa or target roas because if you were to use a max conversions or max conversion value in combination with broad match the algorithm tends to go quite broadly and quite aggressive. And that's something that I want to prevent. I want to prevent wasting spend as much as possible in the beginning. So what I still like to do as a best practice is to launch my newly created campaigns. This is different for existing campaigns with data, but when they are new, I want to start off with phrase and exact match. So what you can do is basically select all of the keywords change them to exact and then you will see that every ad group let's make this a little bit wider there you go every ad group contains all of the keywords in exact match you can also see it on the right hand side but we also want to have some phrase matches in there in order to expand our or exposure so what i like to do for phrase match is to take the highest volume keyword and then just simply duplicate that one and change it to phrase match so what you can do in bulk is basically you can select all of the keywords if Go to Keywords, Control-A, Add Window and Windows Devices, and then Control-H, which is a shortcut to replace and append text. What you can do is to head over to Append Text as a quick little hack, select Keywords, and then add a random symbol before the keywords. So let's say we're just going to add a hash before every single keyword and make sure that these changes are being made in duplicate items. So if you weren't to select this one, it will just put a hash before every single keyword. But if you were to select this one, it will create duplicates of your keywords. If you go down a bit and we go to keywords, there we go. So now we have duplicated our keywords with this little hash in front of it. So what I tend to do is I tend to move this over to phrase, just select them and then select phrase go to the shortcut ctrl h again then replace text instead of append text select keywords you want to replace the symbol that you have just added and then make sure to uncheck this one so it doesn't duplicate your changes again so now it's going to remove all of the symbols in front of your duplicated keywords so now we have two keywords knowledge hubspot knowledge base exact match and phrase match we have all of these keywords duplicated so what i like to do in this phase is to go through my keyword list once again and try to determine what keywords i like to broaden up so for instance just to give you an example this is just to show you how you can quickly upload things and a little thought process but this is not finite to give you an idea in the CRM ad group we have multiple phrase match keywords right now but essentially just CRM alone is able to target all of these keywords already since they are part of the CRM phrase match and query so it is really unnecessary to to use all of these long tail keywords within here as well as a phrase match since since CRM phrase match is also able to target them so I like to delete all of the unnecessary ones. The reason why I still keep these intact is because I want to have my high volume long tails as an exact match or later on as broad match inside of my ad group as well, in order to give me some more data on keyword level, instead of just having to look on search query level every single time, besides that, if you were to use exact match variations or later broad match variations like this, and you were to use a dynamic keyword insertion where you dynamically insert the keyword inside of your ad, which keyword got triggered by the search term, the query people search for, then you increase the relevancy if Google ads feels the need to automatically insert the triggered keyword. So that's why I like to also upload the exact match long tails, so to say. Later on, once we have things running, you want to test with broad match as soon as possible. But in order to test with broad match, your campaigns should be running as a best practice on target CPA or target ROAS. So make sure to first get some data, try to switch bidding strategies from max conversions, max conversion value to target CPA or target ROAS. and then start experimenting with broad match and see what it actually does and brings in terms of additional volume and hopefully additional conversion volume for your efficiency target. So this is the most safe way to start off your account while still using a relatively aggressive bidding strategy like maximize conversion and maximize conversion value. If you have proper conversion tracking, of course. If you want to learn more about that, we have created a specific conversion tracking mastery course. but yeah that's a small detail small detail actually a big detail but we're not going to zoom in on that part i'm just going to leave the rest i'm not going to go through all of the other examples because for example for crm software we ideally also want to filter out some of the phrase match long tails but since i already gave you an example for the crm ad group you should know what i what i mean by that that's it now we have all of our keywords match types ad groups in place like you can see for this example i didn't create ads for the competitor ad groups so i'm going to delete those so i have responsive search ads for every single ad group yeah so those are the basic upload tweaks now we have to make sure that we can actually upload the campaigns the ad groups and the keywords and in order to do we have to use some default configurations so what i like to do is i like to start off with ad groups and then use a default max cpc of just one sense so this annoying warning basically drops off i also like to change topics to observation and only have placements on targeting for what i know google is seeing keywords as a placement on ad group level so always have this on targeting the rest should be an observation so if you were to add a audience then it should be for observation only instead of google targeting those audiences and making your pool way, way more smaller. So that's not something you want. The remaining settings are okay. You can leave them as is. So from there, we can move to the campaigns. In the next video, I'm going to explain more about the campaign settings that you should or should not use. So right now, we're just going to use some basic configurations that we can alter inside of the Google Ads interface. So the campaign settings, just to be clear, I like to configure and double check inside of the interface, since I think it is more clear than the Google as editor. But in order to upload your campaigns, you need to use some default settings. For example, budget wise, I'm going to use just one euro as a daily budget right now. And I'm going to enable my campaigns for now. I want them to be uploaded with the status enabled. Over here, you can set your bidding strategy. So since this is lead gen and we are optimizing towards maximizing our conversions and later on within a specific efficiency target, we want to select maximize conversions and leave this empty. You do not want to start off with a specific target CPA or a specific target ROAS. So you want to go broad First, gather some data during the launch and then move towards target CPA, target ROAS. Once you hit about at least 20 conversions per campaign and hopefully more than 25, at least conversions per month per campaign. Ideally, you want to steer towards at least 50 conversions per campaign per month. That's the sweet spot in order to consistently, to have consistent results. The algorithms need a lot of conversion data in order to give you consistent performances and a consistent ROI. So try to maximize towards those levels. If not, try to consolidate your campaigns if possible. And by consolidating, you have some other problems maybe to encounter like budgets or bidding strategies, targets. But ideally you want to, yeah, you want to steer on target CPA, target ROAS once you have gathered some conversion volume. So right now, my bid strategy is maximize conversions. Campaign type is search. By default, I want to include search partners. I see a lot of Google S specialists that basically exclude search partners right from the start. I have seen a lot of accounts where search partners are a little bit more expensive and converting less or less good in comparison to Google search. But if you take a look at the higher timeframes, then search partners tend to bring in relatively good converting additional conversions. So if you were to disable this, you might miss out on additional conversion volume. So I like to set this on enabled and then later during the optimization phase, where we also will create a specific course slash module for in the future. then check your segments and if the search partner actually driving conversion value or additional conversions if that is your goal and if it's on target leave it enabled if it's not converting well or it's really stupid expensive set it on disabled but i like to set it on enabled for display network i definitely would recommend to disable this because you do not want to use your text ads and your keyword targeting for your display campaigns this messes up your targeting it messes up your metrics you always have to segment out your your well campaign performances in order to see what comes from search and what comes from display if you want to do display just create a specific separate display campaign do not use the include display network feature i haven't use this since the very first moment I started with Google ads and I really do not see any reason at all to leverage this feature, so disable that one and just ignore the warning. Ad schedule none, devices all, ad rotation should be default on optimize if you were to use smart bidding. If you set it on do not optimize rotate ads indefinitely and you run smart bidding then it will simply ignore the setting and use optimize as well friction capping is not relevant language starting let's say this is a english example so i'm going to set it on english i like to use the language of the ads and the landing pages so some people like to target their core language like dutch and then also target english but i think that is quite dangerous since sometimes words like marketing automation or CRM are being used in different languages. And then if your ads are in Dutch or another foreign language and people cannot understand your language and you do not have this language available on your landing page or you're directing people to a wrong language, then people will simply not convert. So just make sure to use the language of your ads in your landing pages. If you want to use different languages, just make sure to create different campaigns and create different languages so you're relevant for different kinds of people yeah so language targeting should be on english and i'm going to change the campaign location targeting to united states just for this example all right back to campaigns okay english location targeting united states what i like to do and this is also a little bit controversial i think i like to keep this on people in or who show interest in your targeted locations recommended instead of using people in or regularly in your targeted locations why often people are on business trip holiday they are simply away from their their own country but they might show interest in your product or service while being abroad so why would you not target those people showing interest in your targeting location if they can bring in conversion value for example i had this gardening client that basically targeted a specific province of the netherlands and they also had it on people in or who show interest in the targeted region for this client and I got a lot of incremental additional conversions from other regions in the Netherlands because people showed interest in that specific targeted location or that specific targeted city and if you were to select this one you would simply miss out on those conversions so I like to start off with this just like including search partner networks and then after my campaign has been uploaded, you can segment out your campaign performances during your optimization phase and see if regions other than your target locations are actually bringing in good converting conversions within your target efficiency. That's basically how I use this feature. And I think that's how you should use it too. If you do not want it to use, or if you have a really good reason to not use this one, but instead this one then yeah feel free to to to select it if you were to use dynamic search ads always make sure to enter your domain over here so i'm just this is something that i do just just everywhere you get this little error because you haven't selected a language of your website so i'm going to add this already so if i want to create a dynamic ad group that i will show you in the next video when we're in the interface then you do not have to configure your website domain anymore if you have uploaded a page feed inside of your account like i've shown you in the dynamic targeting module you can basically use this setting use urls from both google ads index of my website and page feed and then you can also select the page feed that you have uploaded for example ppc mastery page feed blog pages and if you have selected this page feed then when setting up dynamic dynamic targeting in your dynamic ad group you can straight directly target some of the custom labels inside of your page feed that you've already selected over here yeah small tip as well this is not relevant this is also not relevant this is also not relevant not relevant so there we have it these are the basic configurations and then I like to double check this inside of the interface once we're done and I'm going to show you how in the next video so now we have all of our structure and ad groups in place and once again the keywords have not been filtered and fine-tuned everywhere I've only done this for the generic CRM ad group yeah keep in mind that this is still not perfect but i just wanted to show you one thought exercise so right now we can actually upload the campaigns ad groups and keywords and you do so by hitting post it's a little bit below my screen i see so you do so by hitting post so over here you want to select post then selected campaigns for hit post and it should be uploading your campaigns so why do i do this already without any RSAs or any ads. That is because if you have not yet uploaded these dimensions inside of Google Ads and you were to start uploading your RSAs inside of the editor, then the editor cannot find your draft campaigns because these dimensions aren't yet uploaded and inside of your account. It is a bug, I think, but that's why I like to upload this and then basically use the the the rsas i'm going to put this down a little bit so you can actually see what's happening on my full screen there we go so now we can move over to our ads because that's the second step so what we're going to do we're going to copy over all of the ads we're going to go to our simple excel file once again i'm going to copy paste this unformatted i'm going to double check if everything is in here the headlines are over here description lines path one path two okay let me really quickly check if this is within the no it's too long then this search there we go okay so now we're going to delete the first row since we're going to select that inside of google ads copy over the campaign ad group find url headlines to scripturalize and pass i will make sure to link the template below so you can upload the exact same document move over to the editor once again now we want to head over to ads and we want to select responsive search ads then we want to select make multiple changes and if your screen is a little bit small you will see that it is being shown as the hamburger with the plus icon so we're going to hit that we want to select my data includes columns for campaigns and or ad groups since we are going to refer to the campaigns ad groups where the rsa's has to be uploaded within paste from clipboard and then select the appropriate columns so it is campaign ad group final url i have to edit some a little bit this is headline one it moved up a little bit so pay attention to where you're referring to 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, just like kindergarten, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, okay, those are the headlines, description and one, two, three, four, yeah, one and two. So if you were to upload this again in the same format, you can select this little check. Remember the order of my column headings for future imports. And then you do not have to do this again, if you decide to use the same order. Okay. I'm going to hit process. And right now it shows you that two ad groups were added and 21 responsive search ads were uploaded. So I'm going to finish and review the changes. And as you can see, I think the internal and AI are too long. So we get two errors for these headlines. so we have to make some alterations for those yeah also the file contained two competitor rsas that we didn't have ad groups created for so these are shown in blue so we're just going to delete these two draft ad groups and now all of our 19 ad groups contain 19 rsas as you can see So we have 19 ad groups, 19 RSAs, but two of the RSAs still have a small issue that we have to resolve before we can upload the ads. We're going to change this real quick to intelligent automation to solve the error. Innovative, internal, innovate, innovate. And this is not perfect, but just to solve the issue real quick. So now we have all of the information inside. So if we were to scroll a little bit to the right, you see the ad groups over here, campaigns. And there you are seeing the headline one until headline 15, description lines in place, paths in place, and even defining URLs are in place. So that's perfect. So there we have it. just with one simple upload fixing two small errors we have finalized our campaign structure so now we can hit post create 19 responsive search ads and voila there we have it we have now a completed google ads campaign with proper ad group structures with underlying responsive of search ads and underlying keywords in phrase match and exact match in the very first start. You want to move over to broad as soon as possible once you have target CPA and target ROAS in place. Target ROAS is not applicable for this client right now. Potential client would love to have HubSpot, but potentially. Make sure to double check all of your campaign because over here you still lack ad assets. You still want to add in site links, call-outs, structured snippets, image extensions, business logo, business name, call assets, maybe even location, prices, or promotions if you're running any. Those are the most important parts missing. I have chosen not to zoom in on that part because we want to zoom in on that part within the specific course slash module that will zoom in on the creative part. everything related to creatives including upper funnel creatives including extensions and whatnot yeah make sure to not forget the ad extensions and then you have things complete so that's it let's finish this video head over to the interface click through the campaign structure double check the settings and yeah okay let's do that see you there
