# Writing headlines that drive action

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Creatives
- **Duration:** 44:54
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

All right, so in this lesson, we're going to dive deeper into writing headlines that drive action. You will learn how to write headlines that drive engagement and hopefully also conversions, technical requirements and best practices for RSA headlines, and how to maintain a message consistency throughout your entire ad group. So why do headlines matter in the first place? Well, headlines are the first thing that users see in the search engine result page. And you must capture the user's attention immediately through effective and compelling headlines. Because if you don't, chances are that the potential customer, the user, well, clicks on a competitor's ad instead that might be a little bit more compelling than yours. So you must capture the attention early on. And you do that by crafting compelling headlines. It also sets expectations for the entire ad and the landing page. People can basically know what to expect once they click the ad. And that's what we call basically a message consistency, a message match. And you always want to make sure that what you tell in the ad also is being told on the landing page itself or the other way around. You always want to make sure that they go hand in hand in a way. And lastly, it impacts your ad quality. And the ad quality is a major factor in your ad rank. As you can see over here, the first big part of the ad rank is your bid. but the second biggest part is the quality of your ad so how compelling is it how relevant is it and that all basically translates into a particular ad rank and well that often means that if you are doing a great job you will be able to get a much higher ad rank than your competitors even though you might not be bidding as aggressive as your second best competitor so to say so quality of your ad is extremely, extremely important. So what are the requirements? You have a 30 character max per headline. You can add up to 15 unique headlines. You need to add at least three headlines. Headlines can be pinned to specific positions, and you can also include dynamic elements to make your headlines even more dynamic and more relevant to users' queries. so currently there are two main approaches when it comes down to headline writing you can either opt in for the ai powered approach or the manual approach so the air powered approach is a fully automated automated approach where you're going to be maximizing the headline variations up to 15 unique headlines and you basically let google ai test and optimize and search for the best combinations on the query level you do need to be aware of that this requires significant impression volume to optimize as i've already told you in also previous lessons um you can you can have up to a 3000 unique combinations if you add up to 15 headlines if you look at a three headline combination so if you calculate that even further and you basically assume that Google needs at least 100 impressions per unique combination to know if it works or not. Then you need close to 300,000 impressions before Google knows what combination works and what doesn't by looking at all of the potential unique combinations that can be made. So keep that in mind. You can also have a more manual approach where you can limit the head-time variations, where you can also create a B test or add variations. And this could lead to faster statistical significance if you do this in the correct way but in my opinion this is more for the advanced advertiser that has all of their fundamentals in check so i think you should start with the ai powered approach when you're starting out and building out your campaign because it maximizes the creative combinations that are possible it continuously learns and adapts based on well what works and what doesn't also looking at the user behavior and looking at the potential result from unique searches it also requires minimal oversight because if you're going to opt in for manual testing you will need a lot more a lot more well time in order to make sure that any everything is working correctly you need to monitor your tests you need to be also applying your test and making iterations well if you opt in for the AI powered approach things become a a little bit more easy and therefore it also frees up resources to be spent on other areas like landing page optimization for example in order to drive the needle even further so when adopting the ai powered approach you should fully rely on google ai in my opinion to optimize for your best performing combinations i think there aren't really hybrid approaches where you can combine ai with manual i think it's either in a conceptual way of thinking it's either fully automated or a manual approach where you can still rely on unique combinations, but it's a different way of working with RSAs. So like I said already, if you do the math, you can come up with well, 2,733 headline combinations if you add up to 15 unpinned RSA headlines. So yeah, you do the math and that means Google needs a lot of data before it knows it works. So if you want to actively test yourself you need a different approach for for from this but we will dive into optimizing search ads through manual testing in later modules where we're going to dive deeper into well optimizing and experimentation so let's talk about the fundamentals of writing converting headlines that's what we're going to be diving into in the next couple of minutes and then in the next video we're going to be zooming into the descriptions that build on everything we discussed in this particular lesson so first fundamental rule of writing converting headlines is that you need to leverage the creative excellence framework this is where you are basically going to transform your clients or your stakeholders irresistible offer into headlines that really resonate with your audience so when writing search ads you want to focus on creative excellence instead of just looking at the requirements i see people looking at the requirements more often than not like okay I still need to add in four more headlines in order to work my way towards the 15 of 15 headlines. So yeah, what I'm going to do, well, I'm just going to go for this headline and this headline and this headline. And they're just looking at the requirements and also the ad strength metric by Google instead of thinking about a proper way of translating your irresistible offer into proper ads that are actually going to be compelling and that also drive clicks and hopefully results. so you want to start with your irresistible offer you want to translate that into core ad messages several angles then you want to also look at the awareness stage of the particular user by looking at the keywords that you're going to trigger and then lastly you want to translate that into optimized assets whether that are headlines in this particular case description lines and even assets or aka extensions so you have to keep in mind that your search ads are only as strong as your offer because if you have a poor offer you are going to have really really poor creatives because well if you don't have a proper unique selling point if you don't have value boosters if you don't do risk removal if you lack social proof if there isn't any urgency if there isn't any scarcity well what is there that you can basically tell the user and what is there that makes your creative really compelling well most of the time you're going to struggle if you don't hit the boxes so therefore it's really important to make sure that every offer contains a clear value proposition unique selling points value boosters social proof and risk removal at the very least so over here you can see the creative excellent framework that we have touched on in the foundational lessons in the beginning of this particular course or program and i will also link to this particular framework below below this particular video so you can learn more about how this works and how you need to do this for your particular stakeholder because if you don't you're going to result that's going to result in really really poor ad creatives so from that point in the second step you want to translate your irresistible offer into several message variations for example you want to extract that to core benefits you want to highlight your uniqueness what makes you unique and what makes people want your solution instead of others you want to build trust you want to find emotional hooks you want to show the value you want to create scarcity urgency and you want to reverse risk and these are going to become your core message angles and if you have all of these, creating assets, creating ads become really, really easy if you follow the upcoming framework I had. So next you want to translate your messages into compelling headlines. And let me give you a couple of examples based on an example I touched on earlier, Headshot Pro. So Headshot Pro is a SaaS tool that lets you create business ready headshots without having a physical photo shoot by relying on AI. So this is a really solid product and they are doing everything by the books. They have urgency. They have scarcity. They have a really solid core value proposition. They have really solid USPs. They have solid value boosters. They have a solid price point. They even reverse risk. They show all of the pain points. They show the solution. they have a shitload of social proof that they can rely on that you can see beneath the the orange cta and this is going to make your ad copy a process a lot easier in order to create proper ads so first you want to start with your clear value proposition what makes your offer unique what's the main benefit what's the problem do what's the problem you solve and for example if well your tool solves for having a physical photo shoot by creating professional headshots without having to go to a physical photo shoot well you can then translate that into appropriate headlines pro headshots without studio skip the photo shoot today professional photos from home in terms of usps you can for example look at your usp like okay we have ai technology that It delivers eight times faster than traditional photography. So we can translate that into also solid headlines like AI enhanced photo quality, photos ready in two hours, eight times faster than photo shoots. Then you can also look at value boosters. What are your additional features? What are your bonus offerings? Do you include extra perks when people buy from you? Well, let's say that you include more than 200 different variations when you upload a video and let ai create a solid headshot with also customizable backdrops and a linkedin preview tool well really solid value boosters that can stack on top of your original offer well you can translate that into proper headlines like 200 plus styles to choose from customizable headshots dozens of unique backdrops social proof how many happy customers do you serve what are your ratings and what are your reviews? Do you have notable achievements with your customers? Well, in this case, Headshot Pro has over 102,000 satisfied customers with a rating of 4.6 out of 5. So we can translate that into solid headlines like trusted by 102, 207 pros, 4.6 out of 5 from more than 1,200 reviews or close to 18 million headshots created. And the more specific you are over here, the more compelling your ad is going to be. See how easy this becomes if you have all of your angles covered, so to say? And lastly, risk removal. Do you have guarantees? Do you have many money-back offers? Well, in this case, there's a 100% money-back guarantee if people are not satisfied with the quality of the output. So we can translate that into headlines as well. Love it or your money back. 100% satisfaction guaranteed. Risk-free professional photos. So if you add all of that up, we have a large backlog of really compelling headlines already solely from looking in, looking at the irresistible offer and translating that to optimized assets alone. So next up, you want to always match your keyword theme by looking at, well, your headline assets and also your description assets and also your extensions, your assets. because you want to maintain relevance and therefore also improve ad quality even further by aligning the keywords with your ad and also aligning intent behind those keywords with your ad contents and your landing page as well. And the better you do that, the more Google is going to reward that in terms of a higher ad quality and that translate to a high quality score as a diagnostic metric inside of Google Ads. And that basically compounds your ad rank Because the higher your ad relevance, the higher your expected click-through rate, and therefore the higher your ad quality, the higher your ad rank is going to be by having a similar bid. So you want to make sure that each ad group is always built around one particular keyword theme. And all of those keywords tend to share a common intent. They could either be most aware, product aware, solution aware, sometimes even completely unaware. and you want to align your headlines and also the rest of your copy with your keyword themes and also the underlying search intent. So in many cases, what I like to do is I like to start with the creative excellent framework and look at all of the message angles, so to say, or benefits, USPs, social proof, risk reversal. And then I have a couple of generic interchangeable headlines and also descriptions that we're going to touch on in the next video. And then we can use those assets and slightly adopt them by looking at the keyword theme and also on the line intent. So it all aligns and makes sense in order to maximize ad quality. For example, let's say your ad group is built around professional headshots, which could be solution aware with keywords like professional headshot, corporate headshot, and business headshot. So over here, people are not aware that there is an AI tool for this. Well, in that case, we could build around our headlines around that particular awareness stage and also by looking at the keywords in order to make sure that we have the ad relevance. So that could translate into professional headshots today, headshots ready in two hours, create eye-catching headshots. So what we could also do is utilize dynamic elements like dynamic keyword insertion, add customizers on the keyword level in order to also include long tails like professional, corporate, business, but we're going to dive into that in a bit. So we can make sure to make these even more professional. For example, if people search for corporate, you want to obviously make sure to also mimic that search query in your ad and say in your headline that people can have corporate headshots today instead of professional. So that makes your ad relevancy even higher. And we can do that by incorporating advanced tactics, so to say. More about that later. So relevancy do's and don'ts. You want to include your keywords in a natural way. I sometimes see people keyword stuffing their way to ad relevancy, but that's going to hurt your ad quality big time. So stay away from that you want to make sure that you want to match the user search intent you don't want to be mixing different search intents because if people are most aware and they're looking for your particular product right now that's going to be way different a way different traffic temperature than people that are well problem aware that they probably need a professional headshot but they don't know where to go well you can already understand you cannot serve the same ad to those people and let alone say the same landing page you always need to be matching the traffic temperature and therefore you want to be aware of mixing those keywords together in just one ad group without making clever adjustments to your ad copy so make sure to to keep that in mind and lastly well like i said you also don't want to force exact matches because if you're trying to optimize for ad relevance in a unnatural way that's going to hurt your performance so number three you want to also maintain a message consistency you want to create a cohesive message across your headlines your description lines and your landing pages so make sure that there is a consistency between all of your headlines so they can be shown together doesn't matter the combinations so if you're adding 15 unique headlines, make sure to also cross-check those combinations to see if it makes sense. And therefore I like to have a sort of universal headline template that I use looking at all of the different message angles. We'll be touching on that at the end of this particular video that basically guarantees that your individual headlines make sense when shown together. So you also want to prevent adding similar headlines together because if those are being shown together that's going to end up badly as well in terms of relevancy and ad strength so you want to make sure that your headlines align with each other you want to ensure that your headlines also align with your description lines we're going to dive deeper into that in the next video you also want to make sure that your headlines align with your extensions we're also going to dive deeper into that in a similar video and lastly all of your ad copy elements need to align with your landing page and you want to make sure like i said earlier that there is a so-called message match between what people search what people see in your ad and what people read on your landing page if you make sure that there is a proper alignment in all of those elements you're going to drive results as easy as is so just by looking at this particular example that i made for well this example headshot pro this ad group is built around a hypothetical keyword theme like AI headshot, or you can see that the keyword theme AI headshot is being used across headlines, description lines, and also extensions. And the landing page is also going to be addressed around, I'm sorry, around AI. So if you do this in a proper way, you're going to get results and you're going to ace at relevancy and also at strength. And this is the proper at strength that you want to optimize for you don't want to optimize for the fake synthetic ad strength that google is showing you inside of the ui just use your own hat use our framework and you're and you're good so to say so lastly to make your headlines even more relevant you can also leverage dynamic elements and this is the fun part that we like to nerd out on as a google ad specialist so you can personalize your message even further and therefore also improve ad relevancy by utilizing different dynamic elements. And there are essentially four powerful dynamic elements that I want to touch on real quick. So the first one is relatively popular, which is going to be dynamic keyword insertion, also known as DK. This is really easy to implement. I like to have one particular headline that I utilize this particular feature for, so Google can basically dynamically insert the keywords that triggered the ad, so it can do that in order to maximize relevancy. If there are no better headline combinations to be made, essentially. Then we have ad customizers where you can use powerful dynamic elements to insert different headlines on the keyword level and also variables that can change, for example, price, stock levels, stuff like that really, really powerful feature and wildly underused. Then we have location insertion, where you can dynamically insert the user location to make the ad more relevant. And lastly, we have the countdown feature, which is a really powerful dynamic element that counts down to your sale period, for example, or the event that you're going to host. And this makes your ad become more urgent and also makes your ad more scarce. So let's look at each one of them and let's start with the dynamic keyword insertion. So the dynamic keyword insertion feature lets you dynamically update your ads with the keywords that cause your ads to show. And it is really important to know that these are going to be your keywords, not your search terms, not the actual search query that people search for. This is misunderstood by some people. Google is not looking at the search query where people search for and utilizing that inside of the keyword insertion. they're looking at the keyword that triggered that particular ad through the search query that people saw a search for so make sure that you have a proper keyword list because the better your keyword list the better the the matching between keyword and search queries the better your dki dynamic insertion is going to be properly so you can maximize its result and this makes your rsa more relevant to people searching for what you offer and if the search query is too lengthy for example it exceeds the 30 characters it falls back on the default text for example shown over here so over here you can see a dki a keyword dot dot professional headshots comma fast so if the keyword cannot be inserted over here because it's too lengthy or there are other problems google falls back on this particular default text so there are different ways on how you can utilize keyword insertion with different capitalizing options by basically writing down the keyword part of the keyword insertion in a different way. So if you write down keyword with lowercase, you will get a lowercase dynamic keyword insertion. If you have a first letter capitalized keyword, then it will capitalize the first word inside of the sentence. And if you want all of the word capitalized you can also write it like this key and then word where the w is also capitalized and that will make sure that your dynamically inserted keywords are also being capitalized word for word so these are the three different options that you can choose for from so like i said it's important to know that the keyword is being inserted instead of the search query and therefore I like to still build out my keyword lists for all of the mid to high volume keywords that make sense to be added to my ad group even though I'm on fully broad match because if those keywords are getting dynamically inserted they will have a proper close closely related match to the search query that triggered the ad and hopefully it's not only closely matched but is exactly matched so make sure that you work with proper keyword lists so best practices are to always use relevant default tasks you always want to debug potentially awkward insertions so check your keyword keyword lists sometimes people don't want to well include the word free for example well in that case you don't want to add the keyword that in that includes the word free or the long tail free. Sometimes you don't want your competitor to be included inside of your dynamic keyword insertion. Well, then make sure to also not include that particular keyword or separate them in a separate ad group and make sure that you aren't utilizing dynamic keyword insertion within that particular ad group so it doesn't go the wrong way. You also want to check for grammar and readability. Therefore, I don't like to include misspellings inside of my keyword lists because misspellings can also be included within your dynamic keyword insertion and that makes your ad look really really bad and unprofessional so that's also a thing and you want to match your capitalization with other headlines by utilizing the correct syntax so to say like we discussed over here so now it's time to turn it up a notch because what is even more exciting from my particular opinion is working with ad customizers also known as ac ad customizers lets you personalize your ads with dynamic variables they can either be static or feed based and it really really makes your ad stand out versus competitors if you do it the correct way so you can utilize ad customizers for product information for example where you can insert a customizer for prices that are your starting prices within certain categories or subcategories this can be feed based this is what i like to do for my e-commerce clients quite easy to set up but make sure add really really powerful for example starting at 29 dollar this is obviously a default text what you see over here but it is looking at the at the actual at variation that you're using could be on the keyword level could be on a higher level depending on the customize you're using using and how you're setting it up we're going to dive deeper into that for in a bit then we can also include stock levels for example only five items left which is referring to your stock on the item level for example or the subcategory level depending on what you would like to do and also discounts so if you want to also utilize dynamic discounts you can also do that through a feed based ad customizer so your discounts are getting up to date well update it every single day as well you can also use it for time sensitive information for example promotions seasons or shipping for example x offer and soon or shop winter collection or for example you can have one headline being fully customized based on the the shipping rules of your particular e-com account so what this lets you do is for example let's say if you want to highlight that you're shipping that that the product that is being ordered is being shipped to the customer tomorrow and is going to be delivered tomorrow before 10 p.m in the evening well in that case you can have this string updated by looking at the time of the day and then insert a headline that is being updated every single time by looking at that particular time slot you can also do it different other ways but this is how you can make your ads even more compelling so your ad customizers can be either static or dynamic when leveraging ad customizers for variables like pricing stock levels or other dynamics for example dynamic discounts i would highly recommend you to use scheduled uploads to keep your values up to date so what i like to do is i like to utilize feed management tools like channable in order to create a really simple csv file with three simple columns the attribute the data type and the account value so over here you can see a really simple ad customizer by looking at the different categories and subcategories that my customer offers and what i did i created a rule inside of channel ball that looks at the cheapest product price within that subcategory and then that price is being mapped to that particular attribute and that is being synced every single day to google ads as you can see over here you can see the values being approved this is getting updated every single day and we can then refer to these attributes within the ad groups that are relevant to that particular subcategory or category as a whole like you see over here so over here i'm referring to the ad customizer well sliding door systems translated to english and you can see that the price is 34 euros in this particular case and the customizer is looking up the most up-to-date value for that particular attribute and therefore the lowest price is always being shown inside of the particular ad for that particular product so really simple but really powerful stuff so if you want to utilize ad customizes to its full potential, you can go one step further and you can also utilize it at the keyword level. And this is insane, insanely powerful. And I think a lot of people are not doing this yet in the best way possible, but it lets you basically consolidate your accounts even further and therefore also utilize different headlines, different headline variables on the keyword level so that makes you able to consolidate long tails within lesser ad groups while still maintaining ad relevancy while when combining well ad customize on the keyword level and combining that with keyword level final urls so ad customizes give you more control than keyword insertion they are like said perfect for consolidated structures they also enable you to scale without while making things complex so over here you can see that i'm targeting different long tails we have summer dress which is quite generic we have red dress which is color related we have a blue summer dress a color season and then a product category we have a size s dress a well size related query and a color related query with a size red dress l size l and as you can see we can start utilizing dynamic elements in order to make your ad really stand out and make your ad highly dynamic. So you see over here that we are pointing towards a customizer called color with a default backup value stylish. So if a keyword doesn't have a color attribute like red dress or red dress L or blue summer dress, then it's going to fall back on stylish. If it does have a color attributes assigned to them and people search for, for example, red dress, then this particular customizer is going to be updated to red. So shop red dresses. This particular add customizer is looking at the size. So we have two keywords over here with a size included, size S and size L. So we can make sure to address the address, not a pun intended, but we can make sure that this particular keyword has the variable size S and this one has the variable size L. So if people search for size as dress, then this variable is going to be updated to colorful dresses in S size. If this one is being triggered, red dress L, then this one is going to be updated to L, colorful dresses in L size, depending on how you would like to frame your headline. So it's a little bit technical to set it up, but if you have done it two or more times, it will make more sense. Now we'll make sure to create over-the-shoulder examples to show you how to do this yourself as well. So over here, you can actually see the different variables on the keyword level. So what you can do, you can head over to your columns, your columns on the keyword level, then head over to the column category, add customizers, if I'm correct. And then you can select the add customizer values that you want to see on the keyword level. And if you basically apply that, then you can see the applied add variables or add customizers on the keyword level. so summer dress has the season summer but it doesn't have a color and size being being addressed because obviously there is no color and there is no size in this particular keyword so if people search for summer dress we want to fall back on this particular default shop stylish dresses and colorful dresses in your size instead of a customized because there isn't a color and size variable but there is a season variable so we could include summer as a variable in our ads in a very strategic and clever way same applies for blue summer dress for example so over here we have a color and a season so we have color blue season summer and that makes sure that when people search for blue summer dress the color variable is going to be updated to blue shop blue dresses so this is how you're going to be utilizing add customize on the keyword level while being really really compelling effective while still making sure that you can consolidate in order to send more traffic to lower amounts of assets so to say to help the algorithm learn as fast as possible so now we have one even bigger tip and that is that you can instead of working with variables also work with full headline ad customizers and this gives you full flexibility over what you would like to show in your headline once a specific keyword triggers your ad so instead of making it a little bit more complex and only dissecting long tails and making sure that you're mapping those long tails to the correct ad customizer values you can also create a full headline ad customizer so when people search for summer dress you can have this keyword ad customizer headline colorful summer dresses that you can then dynamically insert inside of your ad for red dress you can have stylish red dresses for blue summer dress you can add a headline blue summer dresses or size s dress stylish dresses in size s for red dress l stylish red dresses in size So this gives you even more flexibility because now you can really type out your full headline variable for keywords specifically. And you can then include that within your RSA ad and make things even more and more and more relevant. So consolidation possibilities are endless when you utilize ad customizers to its full potential. For example, you can even consolidate locations within one ad group. So let's say you are running localized ads for a customer in a particular region with more than five locations. Let's say you have a location in New York, Manhattan, Colorado, Las Vegas, Washington. Let's say those are your five cities. Then you can automatically insert the correct location based on the user's query by making sure that the ad is always relevant to the keyword that triggered your ad and then you can also combine that with keyword level urls so you can point for example when people are searching for colorado you can point people to your colorado page as well so you have a 100% relevant ad you have a 100% relevant landing page while still having a really consolidated campaign structure so to say. So really powerful stuff. You don't have to underestimate the power of utilizing ad customizers like this. So now you know why ad customizers are extremely powerful when used right. So lastly, we have the dynamic element location insertion, also known as LI. This lets you easily customize text ads based on the user's location. And this can be used instead of, well, writing individual static headlines for every single location. And if you do this, you will have to segment out your ad groups or sometimes even more campaigns in order to make your ads really relevant well if you utilize location insertion or the ad customizer that we discussed in the previous a couple of slides you don't have to over segment anymore you can consolidate and do it this way so location insertion is a little bit easier than utilizing ad customizers on the keyword level because if you apply a location insertion you're basically relying on google's knowledge where Google is looking at the user location or the user location a user's interested in, and then they are dynamically inserting that particular location inside of your, well, headline in this particular example. That can be on the city level, the state level, or the country level. So let's say you want to dynamically insert the city people are in right now or actively searching for that people are interested in. Then you can basically utilize the location insertion like location, city, and then we have a default backup text, the UK. So if the city is too long, maybe you have a really long city name of 25 characters and it doesn't fit within this header anymore, it falls back on the UK. But if the people are searching in London and looking for a hotel in London, then London is automatically inserted and that basically fits within this particular character length and then it will be automatically inserted understand so that can be done for state country level as well makes things really powerful and quite easy to implement you can do it like this this is a dutch example for one of my clients where i'm basically telling in the ad that we have a fast delivery in a particular dynamically inserted city if the city doesn't fit i'm falling back on the netherlands as a value and that always fits so if people are from amsterdam then this particular headline location insertion is being dynamically inserted for amsterdam so fast delivery in amsterdam making it really really tailored to that particular user and more and more relevant and hopefully resulting in a higher ad quality and hopefully resulting in a higher ad rank as well so location insertion automatically pulls the user's location and inserts it within your ad while location ad customizers lets you control exactly what location text appears when people include the location within their keyword as well so people are searching for hey i'm looking for a dentist in colorado then you can make sure to be 100% sure to include colorado in your ad by using ad customizers but if people don't search for a for a location you don't know and you can't go you can't tell google to utilize a particular location within that ad customizer but at the same time through location insertion you can because google always has the location of the user depending by looking at the ip address or looking at the search history and stuff like that so those are the pros and cons of every single feature so it's really important that you understand the differences and then we have the countdown customizer to finish with where you can let people know about sales or special events by adding a countdown typer to to your ad this feature lets you fill in the date and the time when you want to count when you want your countdown to start and to end you can select the start of the day the end of the day and also a custom time if you want this is looking really complex but you don't have to insert it like this if you open the countdown customizer feature by typing this curly bracket you can hit on countdown customizer you can go through a little wizard and it makes you makes it really easy to insert this particular variable based on your configuration you don't have to type it out like this it's much easier than that so over here you can for example see that i'm using a countdown customizer for a hypothetical example for headshot pro you can see that we are running a hypothetical sale over here now 50 off there are 13 hours left based on the countdown timer that i've inserted here so this dynamically counts down based on the time of day the user location time zone and when your offer well obviously ends and this really makes your ad more urgent and drives people to click hopefully so assets with countdown customizers automatically stop showing after their specific end date has been reached so you always want to make sure to change that particular headline if the countdown has been finished in order to make sure that your ad continues to serve without any problems so make sure to do this when your ad customizer ends in order to well make use of that particular asset so it goes into the rotation once again. So now let's look at how this all comes together. So this is my universal headline template that I like to use. This isn't per se relevant for every single business because some of you might not have urgency or scarcity. Some of you don't want to use keyword insertion, for example. So I basically looked at all of the message angles that I want to include within the headline rotation instead of my RSA. So I came up with a keyword insertion one time, benefit focus four time, feature focus two time, social proof two time, urgency and scarcity two time, value related one time, risk reversal one time, and CTA two time. It's up to you how you want to dial this in. There's no good or wrong, as long as you make sure that your combinations are solid and really strong. And ideally, you want to address all of these different angles because together they really make your ads stand out and make your ads really really compelling in order to drive action so i made sure to to give you some some examples over here for three different verticals for legion e-commerce and sas i'm not going to go over every single headline variable over here you can find them inside of the slides if you want to look take a closer look at them but they are quite straightforward. So if you do this correctly then your benefits are going to lead with core value, your features supports your ad with specificness, social proof builds credibility and urgency is going to arrive action and lastly risk reversal removes any barriers that there might be and that really leads to a highly compelling hopefully converting headline combination so key takeaways you want to leverage the creative excellence framework if you are not going to do that that's all fine by me but you're going to miss out on ad compellingness so ideally you want to always start with your creative excellence framework start with your irresistible offer translate that to core ad messages make sure to map that by awareness stage and then translate to optimized assets then you want to match your keyword themes, you want to maintain message consistency, and you want to leverage the dynamic elements where possible and when relevant, and then the next lesson, we're going to dive deeper into writing compelling descriptions, where we're going to build on the tactics that we have used, that we've addressed in this particular video lesson, we're going to create supporting description lines that support the headlines that you've created and that altogether while maintains your message consistency and Make sure to add really undeniably good. So I hope to see you in the next lesson. Please make sure to follow the links below of this video because there's some additional resources to be found over there. In the next lesson, I'm going to also give away some more additional resources, like for example, a prompt template that you can use in order to let LLMs like Chachapati or Claude write really compelling headlines and description lines based on your irresistible offer, but also a custom GPT that helps you create really solid ads so I hope to see you in the next lesson and I hope this was really helpful
