# What has worked in the past doesnt work anymore

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Keyword targeting
- **Duration:** 13:37
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

What has worked in the past doesn't work anymore right now. So in this lesson, you will learn how technology has evolved throughout the years and what this means for your keyword targeting and match types being used and why using an outdated keyword strategy may result in missing out on volume and conversion or conversion volume. So the first reason is search behavior is changing drastically. and I've listed a couple of reasons over here how it changed drastically and what you can do about this within your own strategy and tactics so the first the first reason is due to increasing complexity users demand highly specific search results so a couple of years ago or a lot of years ago when google just started out search queries were quite broad the internet was quite small users were happy with every single possibly relevant result they could get but right now users demand highly specific results based on highly specific search queries number two is the use of synonyms so users are using a wide variety in wording to achieve the same search result as of now so previously they just used single searches or more more so single searches and right now they're using all of these synonyms variety of wording to basically achieve the same search result and they know they will end up with a relevant personalized result inside of the search engine result pages since the search engine results since the search engines also became smarter so they do not have to think about very precise ways of describing stuff that they are searching for because the search engines are able to decode this. Number three is due to the rise of long tail searches. Four or more words dominate search queries right now. We still see a lot of volume coming in on short tails especially from mobile phones where people do not like to type in a lot of long specific queries but on other devices like desktop and increasingly also on mobile phones you're seeing a big growth in long tail search queries with four or more words and I will have an example of that based on a internal Google research in a future slide. Number four is evolving search methods. So a couple of years ago we just had text so we just searched for a keyword, a search term, a query, essentially, by typing it in, in the Google search engine. But right now, people have different ways of searching. Searching based on a text base by just typing in is still being used by most of the people, but we are seeing a lot of voice and visual searches that are on the rise. And I think these other types of searches will only increase in the near future. So we have to prepare for that as well. Number five is the mobile search. We are seeing a rapid growth in smartphone driven search behavior. So if you pull up a graph where you see the searches per device, you will basically see mobile phones or, yeah, mobile phones essentially skyrocketing in terms of percentage of searches in comparison to the total searches done within Google. So desktop is declining, tablets are somewhat the same for what I can recall, but mobile phones are just on the rise and this will only increase. So this is also a big change in search behavior. Number six is personalized experiences. So users expect tailored personalized search results nowadays. The search engines have evolved in such a way that they can easily give you really personalized results based on your unique query and your internet browsing behavior your past searches and this is really identical per google user when this information is available of course so this is also something that has changed drastically and last but not least understanding intent what i have seen as a google advertiser is that decoding user intent is becoming complex yes we have really really specific more than four word long tails that people are using right now that are popping up in the search term reports more frequently but people are still using different short tails in different synonyms that basically results in yeah in complex understanding of the intent behind every long tail so we need the algorithms to help us with this as well since we cannot find the intent behind every single keyword where it isn't being used inside of the keyword. And then not to speak about visual searches or maybe even voice searches. So I think this will become more complex in the future as well. So let's go through a little game analogy because why not? And we like to nerd out at PPC Mastery. Once we started out, we were essentially in early game and if you are using a age of empires analogy this was basically the stone age so in the early game phase of age of empires you have limited tools and technologies to your exposure similar to the early days of google and google ads and this was completely fine at first since the user behavior wasn't really complex as well users used simple terms short tails to search because the internet was still new and the idea of finding precise niche content wasn't really prevalent so they were okay with all sorts of results that were quite generic and not really personalized since they were really happy about this new technology at all and then we progressed towards mid-game where we essentially come in the castle age so as the game progresses you discover new tools build more complex structures and tend to explore more and this is what users are doing or have have done in the past and google ads basically had to but also google the search engine itself had to adapt based on this and this mirrors the stage when google users started to realize they could use more complex queries to get better and more relevant search results and they began to make their searches more specific. So this was the phase where a lot of searches were include, include a lot of intent. So it was really clear what people were searching for. And right now it tends to become more complex since, uh, users expect Google to serve relevant, um, results nonetheless, since, uh, Google has become so smart. So in the last, uh, phase, we basically have the late game phase. And this is the, or almost a late game, the last phase. And over here, we are in the late game phase, which is the imperial age. And in the end game, you have a vast empire with complex systems and structures, analogs to today's Google users who utilize long tail searches, making their queries highly specific. And users leverage advanced features like voice search, image search, visual search, and four plus word queries to find exactly what they're looking for. And lastly, we have, yeah, this is where we're going. We're going to a crazy modern era, which is extremely late game. And I think the amount of advanced features, the search behavior of users will drastically change in the near future and will become evenly more complex. And this is why I think you have to adapt for the near future, but also what's happening right now by utilizing different tactics and different keyword targeting options. We're going to dive into that part in the next couple of lessons. So here's how our search behavior has changed. On the left-hand side, you see the years prior to 2016. And this were terms where people were just searching for spaghetti, Italian pasta, pasta recipe, how to cook pasta, tomato pasta recipe. So quite straightforward, using some long tail words like tomato, how to cook in the search queries already to get more relevant results. But then a couple of years later, people starting to throw in a lot of more niche words to further tailor the results to their needs. And this is where people are starting to search for a healthy pasta recipe or how to cook pasta al dente, authentic Italian pasta recipe, quick tomato recipe for two or spaghetti bolognese without meat. So you're starting to see that a lot of search queries are already starting to become more complex and more long tail. So Google needs to cater for these needs with more relevant results. And right now we're in the present. And to give you some extreme examples, these are the types of long tails that are popping up as search queries in your search term reports right now. Gluten-free vegan pasta recipe under 500 calories. best italian pasta recipe recommended by italian chefs chefs step-by-step guide to cooking pasta al dente with a video or how to make authentic spaghetti bolognese without meat where people are looking for authentic recipes but still a little bit vegan because of the without meat part and lastly quick and easy tomato pasta recipe for two ready in 15 minutes so then just not looking at a tomato recipe anymore but they want a quick and easy recipe that can be cooked in under 15 minutes because of rush hour at home so this is how behavior is changing so for us as a google ad specialist it is really important to know how search behavior is evolving and how we need to adapt our keyword targeting strategies, but also our RSA, copy, offer, and landing pages strategies in order to tailor relevant ads, landing pages for these user queries. So searches are becoming longer every single year. So this is a internal study done by Google in April, 2022. so over here you're seeing the year-on-year changes in search behavior for different queries that contain a number of specific words searches with one or two words have starting to increase by 14 percent year-on-year so it's increasing but not as fast as the other ones searches with three or four words have increased by 20 percent year-on-year so they're growing faster than the short tail queries and searches with four plus words are accelerating even quicker and have grown plus 26% year on year. So 2022 versus 2021. So I think this continues to trend and it might even accelerate as we further tailor our search queries for better personalized results. So that's what we have to expect so this is what i want to end the lesson with in order to basically not miss out on relevant volume and relevant conversion volume that performs within your efficiency targets you have to adapt to the present and you have to adapt your keyword strategy otherwise this will be you missing the train missing the train filled with conversions and filled with volumes because you're still running on exact match and SCEC structures only. And you have to revisit everything that you have, that you're doing right now to leverage the technology, to leverage the tactics that work right now to, to basically make sure that you're matching on all of the relevant long tail queries that we have touched on in this lesson. So in the next few lessons, we will zoom in on how modern day search actually works. And we will be diving into the specifics in order for you to not miss the train filled with conversion volume. So let's zoom in and let's continue with the next lesson. Hope to see you there.
