# Topic discovery and brainstorming

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Keyword research
- **Duration:** 08:09
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

Welcome back to another video and in this video we're going to zoom in on the first step of the Keyword Success Framework and that is about the contextualization of your keyword research. So this step is mainly about topic discovery and brainstorming your initial ideas. So in this lesson you will learn how to brainstorm initial keyword ideas and what tools to use, how to steal keyword ideas from your direct competitors and how you can create a seed keyword list that you can later expand upon in the next step which is create to find interesting long-tail keywords. So over here you see the Keyword Success Framework and we are going to begin with the first step, contextualize which is about topic discovery and brainstorming. What is very important in this step is that you have a master document, preferably a shareable Google Sheet, for example, where you log all of your initial keyword ideas. I like to use a really simple template that you can see over here. I will link it inside of the resources below as well. So you can create a copy yourself. And this document will be used throughout this course. you will find multiple worksheets in the bottom of the sheet that is corresponding to every single step contextualize create etc what you want to do over here you want to log your services or your product categories or product subcategories in every single column in a separate column so to say. So over here, you will see an example for HubSpot that I've just created. So let's say you were to do keyword research for HubSpot. HubSpot is selling several services. They are a SaaS-based company, so they are selling CRM services, sales management tools, customer service-related tools, marketing automation knowledge basis cdp software tools customer data platforms so for every single topic or main cluster so to say which could be a service product category product subcategory whatever or a tool that your customer or your business is using you have to create a separate column and below this column, you're going to log your initial keyword ideas that you want to expand on in future steps. So make sure to create a copy because this will be a worksheet that we will be using throughout the course and make sure to delete all of the values for yourself and work along the course with your own keyword research document that is relevant for your business. Next up is how to brainstorm keyword ideas, because this is the actual first step that we are going to undertake. So there are multiple ways how you can brainstorm keyword ideas for your seed keyword list, which is your brainstorming template. The first step is really obvious, but a lot of people are missing this somehow, is to look at your historical search term data. this can this can be a search term data report from inside your google ads account if you have if you have enabled google ads campaigns in the past or maybe you're currently running a google ads search campaigns or multiple search campaigns but you can also take a look at your search console dashboard for example where google often give you some organic search ideas as well this is really important so you do not have to start from scratch and if you do not have to start from scratch you will save yourself a bunch of time in the researching process so use your historical search term report data to come up with a list of high volume seed keywords that you can use to later expand upon i would recommend to only pick the high volume short tails from your search term report so you can then expand on these short tails in your long tail keyword research step which is the step to create process that we will touch upon in the next few lessons you do not want to add all of the long tails all of the variants in your seed keyword list this list is just a dump of all of the important short tails with high volume that you want to research any further. So the second step is AI language models like ChatGPT. ChatGPT can be used to generate a bunch of keyword ideas. And this is really, really, really powerful and really helpful since they just do an excellent job in helping you out in the creative brainstorming process or topic discovery. What you can do is to ask the model, for example, ChatGPT, to generate a list of seed keywords based on a description of your company, of your service, of your product category, or even a URL. I guess right now they have disabled the URL scraping function, but maybe in the near future or when you watch this video, they have enabled the URL scrape function again, which is quite easy to use. So you can just ask ChatGPT, hey, this is my website, or this is a description of my website or the description of my category, services, whatever, please generate a list of interesting seed keyword ideas that I can then use to expand on in my keyword research process. Really powerful. I will show you how to do this in the next lesson. The third part is that you can also use keyword research tools. This is the most obvious one. You can utilize tools like Google's own Keyword Planner, which has become real powerful. I have really disliked their Keyword Planner tool in the past, but right now I'm really frequently using their own Keyword Planner since they just give you way more data points right now. And you can also create really good forecasts in their own Keyword Planner tool, but you can also use additional tools that I'm still fond of, KeywordTool.io or SEMrush or Ahrefs. And we will dive into the most important tools in the next few lessons. Some are paid, some are free. So according to your budget, you can decide which one to use. Last but not least, you can also brainstorm for new keyword ideas by decoding competitors. Success leaves clues. And this is really important to remember. If you have a very big competitor that is really big in your industry that has a lot of market share they have gotten big somehow and if they have a great online marketing strategy they will leave clues for you to discover so analyze your competitors websites and campaigns to discover new keyword ideas because it could be that they are targeting completely different keyword themes long tails that you haven't thought about yet and you can quite easily discover them by using tools like SEMrush or even ChatGPT since they both do a great job when used right. So that's it. In the next few lessons we're going to dive in the separate tools that you can use in order to populate your seed keyword list and find a lot of new keyword ideas that you can later expand on in your long tail keyword research process. So let's dive in and let's continue with the next lesson.
