# Expand your keyword list with long-tail keywords

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Keyword research
- **Duration:** 08:43
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

We have now completed the first step where we did some brainstorming about the seed keywords. We brainstormed, we did some topic discovery, and we basically filled in our seed keyword list per topic, per product category, or per service. So right now it is time to expand on these seed keyword lists and start obtaining some interesting long tail insights with actual search volumes, with CPC data, with competition levels as well. So in this specific lesson or in the next few lessons, you will learn how to leverage various tools to expand your seed keyword list with long tail keywords. So right now we are at step number two, step number two, create. And over here, we want to generate a broad list of keywords using various research techniques and using various tools we want to aim for a comprehensive coverage of terms that your potential clients might use and we also want to obtain a list of irrelevant queries that we can start excluding right from the start this is basically the keyword research document that i have shared shared in the previous lessons as well i will make sure to link create a link below this video so you can copy this document once again but basically this is the same document so in the first worksheet that we have used in the previous lessons you you had filled in the seed keywords per topic like crm knowledge base marketing automation etc and right now we want to head over to the second worksheet which is filled in with some dummy data and we want to expand on all of the seed keywords that we have filled in in the first worksheet. So we filled in seed keywords like CRM, CRM software, CRM system, CRM meaning, CRM sales force, all of these kinds of interesting terms that we want to further expand on to see if there are interesting long tails for these keywords. So we want to use various tools in order to find these long tail keywords. And there are several tools that you can use for this. And there are way more tools that you can use for this than I'm going to illustrate in this lesson. But I'm just going to mention the tools that we like to use that are really convenient to use as well. So the first tool is the Google Ads Keyword Planner. And this tool is really powerful nowadays. And I think a lot of people are not using it properly or as frequent as they should be using it. This tool is obviously free. As soon as you have a Google Ads account, you can access the keyword planner. You do not need any spend in your account for this tool to enable. And this free tool basically gives you keyword suggestions based on your seed keywords. You can fill in one keyword or multiple keywords and or in a combination with your url so you can also strip out irrelevant long-tail ideas based on the content of your url or you can even just fill in your url to see keyword ideas themselves the google ads keyword planner also provides historical data based on your your account but also based on the last month searches for example it can also help for to forecast data and it can give you some competitive metrics like the top of the page bit, the absolute top of the page bit, the competition levels and stuff like this. So the second tool that you can use is KeywordTool.io and I like to use this tool almost in every single keyword research process that I perform. So KeywordTool.io is paid. I think it costs around $79 per month but I'm not completely sure. So you need a paid plan in order to extract all of the data points that you want over here. And basically KeywordTool.io uses Google's autocomplete data to generate hundreds of relevant long tail keywords for any topic that includes also search volumes, CPCs and competition levels. So it's a great complete tool as well. And it gives you a little bit more data than the Google Ads Keyword Planner sometimes does. so i like to combine these two tools a tool that i also like to use is semrush and semrush is a popular tool among online marketers also used for seo purposes a lot you can also use it for google ads or paid search activities so semrush offers long-tail keyword suggestions and also gives you information about search volume keyword difficulty and competitor insights and what i like about SEMrush is that it also gives you the intent behind every single keyword so it also gives you information like hey this term is informational this term is navigational and these two are commercial and transactional so this is quite helpful as well there are some beautiful features in this tool that you can use in order to expand your keyword research upon and last but not least we also have chat gpt chat gpt isn't a keyword research tool itself but it can assist in brainstorming long-tail keyword ideas and evaluating keyword choices so you can use the creative part of chat gpt to ask hey if i select these this group of keywords with commercial intent is it a good idea or not or should i also include these keyword ideas what is your opinion about this, but you can also ask it to troubleshoot certain errors and help within brainstorming. So if you cannot really find great keywords for a very specific B2B SaaS niche, then you can also ask ChatGPT to help you to find certain keyword ideas that you haven't thought about earlier. So it's similar with the first step where we, the first step contextualize where we did some topic discovery and brainstorming as well. Or you can also use it for long-tail keyword exploration. So there are some important remarks to be made over here. I like to use the first three tools at your disposal to discover as many as relevant long-tail keyword ideas. You do not want to bother including metrics like search volume and expected CPCs from the start. You just want to extract all of the interesting long tails and also irrelevant long tails that you can later exclude from all of the tools. And later, once finished, you want to use Google Ads Keyword Planner to upload all of the deduplicated long tail keywords and basically extract keyword metrics like monthly search volume, CPCs, competition level, etc. So we do not want to rely on keyword metrics from other platforms even though SEMrush and KeywordTool.io are using relatively valid metrics you want to be as close to the source as possible because Google probably knows best. Last point I want to make is during your keyword research you want to exclude low volume keywords so when you're doing your long tail research you want to use a certain search volume threshold so you do not want to include all of the low volume long tails since these are just two of a low volume keywords to include within your campaigns so i only want to recommend this in highly specific niches b2b sas niches for example where you really need some keywords to drive your google ads campaigns with but within the higher volume verticals like specific e-commerce verticals or B2C services, you want to use a threshold like 50 monthly searches per month at least, if you want to include this within your keyword research, because you do not want to include all of the low volume keywords right from the start. So that's it. In the next video, we're going to start with the Google Ads keyword planner. And in that video, I'm going to illustrate how you can use that tool to expand your seed keyword list on. So let's dive in.
