# The importance of keyword research

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Keyword research
- **Duration:** 08:03
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

What's up guys, and welcome to the first actual lesson of this course, which is about the importance of performing an effective keyword research. So in this lesson, you will learn how keyword research plays an crucial role in the performance of your future search campaigns, and why I think it cannot be skipped 9 out of 10 times. So let's dive in. There are basically six important pillars or reasons to perform keyword research. And the first reason is that by performing keyword research, you can identify highly relevant and irrelevant search queries before you actually start your campaigns. Keyword research allows you to identify all relevant search queries for your specific business. It also lets you identify and exclude irrelevant keywords right from the start. So what I tend to do prior to launching my campaigns, prior to creating my campaigns, is that I create two documents. One document contain all of the relevant long tail keywords and short tail keywords that I want to use inside of my search campaigns. And the second document is basically made for all of the irrelevant long tails or all of the irrelevant words that I came across during my keyword research process. And this helps saving you a lot of money right from the start. number two is that by performing key research you can easily understand user intent so different keywords can signify different user intents search intents and by aligning your keywords accordingly you can make your campaigns way more effective and this is especially interesting to do if you are running constrained budgets so let's say you have a fixed marketing budget for let's say 5 000 euros a month that you can allocate to google ads search but the the the size of the total search market is basically worth 50k so 10 times as big so when you want to allocate that 5k you want to allocate that budget towards the keywords with the highest user intent, the highest search intent with a transactional or commercial intent wherever possible. So this is really important to allocate your budgets wisely. Number three is that you can gain a competitive advantage by performing keyword research. And this has somewhat lose its value since a lot of advertisers are using performance max broad match dsa dynamic ad targets and google is basically picking the interesting long tails with lower volumes themselves nowadays a few years ago this wasn't the case still we had broad match we had dsa but not a lot of advertisers were using these but nowadays they do but i think it's still important and it can still give you a competitive edge so by performing a keyword research you might find high value keywords that your competitors have overlooked thus far and maybe their automated campaigns like their dsa campaigns their search campaigns running on broad match their performance max campaigns are already targeting these queries but that does not necessarily mean that they have created highly effective ads and highly effective landing pages for for those and if you identify these keywords up front prior to creating your search campaign structure you can in fact create relevant ads for them and create relevant high converting landing pages for those type of queries so i think there's still a competitive edge to be had over here number four is you can create a close to perfect campaign structure by performing keyword research. So by grouping relevant keywords together and mapping them to the correct landing pages, you can improve your overall campaign and ad group structure from the start. And this is, I think, the most important one that will save you a lot of time in the optimization phase. So what I see a lot of people do, I see a lot of advertisers is create a really simple structure based on their website structure for example throw in a couple of broad match keywords pair with smart bidding but yeah that will lack a lot of effective responsive search ads that really aren't suitable for their creative themes there are a lot of mismatches on the landing pages and basically by performing keyword research up front you can easily group your keywords together map them together create relevant ads create relevant landing pages and that will basically result in a close to perfect campaign structure from the start that also means that during the optimization phase you have way less to do and you can instantly focus your attention to other areas like rsa testing or landing page optimization or testing with different campaign structures or even match types I don't know instead of just building out your campaign structure for the weeks to come so this is why I like to begin with a extensive keyword research number five is by doing so you can also ace your quality score from the start so by creating relevant ad groups writing relevant RSA copy and creating relevant landing pages that are really centered around around the creative themes the ad groups that you have created you will ace your quality score you will ace your ad relevance you will ace your expected click-through rate and you will ace your landing page experience and this is really important since this will save you a lot of money from the start since you do not have to overpay to get that specific ad rank that you're looking after to outbid your competitors. This is also a great point to be made. And last but not least, we already touched on this a little bit, is you can improve your budget allocation. So let's say you have that 5k per month, but your market is 50k of size per month. So it's 10 times bigger than what you can spend. It's easy to identify the commercial and transactional user intent keywords and allocate your budgets towards them because those keywords tend to perform best they tend to convert best yes they tend to be be competitive as well since your competitors will also focus on commercial and transactional keywords but if you have to make a choice between really broad short tails and highly specific long tails then I would personally know where to focus my budgets on. And this will provide a great ROI from the start. So doing keyword research upfront is really important and it will save you a bunch of money, a bunch of time in the long run. It will make your client happy since you can create a close to perfect campaign structure right from the start. You will also be able to exclude irrelevant keywords from the start that will save your client a lot of money as well so in my opinion performing keyword research before creating your campaigns is a must nine out of ten times there are exemptions and we will touch touch on these exemptions in a future lesson but i like to start my my campaign creation journey with a keyword research up front so let's continue with the next lesson Thank you.
