# Constructing your Search campaigns

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Campaign structure
- **Duration:** 30:39
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

So after all of the theory that we have discussed in the last few lessons, we can now continue with constructing our search campaigns. So in this lesson and in the next few lessons, you will learn how you can put everything together and how to prepare your Google Sheets for your Google Ads editor upload. So right now we are in step number four inside of the keyword process, keyword research process, the keyword success framework, so to say. So in a few videos back, we spoke about step number three, categorize, where we have created several clusters. And right now we are going to create a campaign structure, an ad group structure based upon all of the best practices that we touched upon and the clusters that we have already created. So in the next part of this video, we are going to continue where we have left off. So let's dive into our keyword research template that we can now finalize that we can use for our Google Ads campaign and ad group structure. So let's dive in. So here we are inside of the example keyword research template for the example client HubSpot. And over here, we have already categorized our keywords and we have also created clusters based on the keywords that we have seen inside of this document. so we already went over this a few videos back and right now we can start to create a campaign structure an ad group structure based on the clusters that we have already created so over here you can see that we have a few crm related categories and keywords we have a few marketing automation related keywords we have few knowledge base related keywords and if we were to sort it like this it will be a little bit more obvious there we go we've categorized just a few examples crm related keywords into generic ad groups that we cannot really further specify or do not want to specify any further we've created a few more specific clusters like crm marketing where we have created a marketing cluster or a non-profit cluster for a keyword like crm for non-profits and as you might recall correctly you want to be as specific as possible over here so you can start to create relevant creative themes that you can write relevant responsive search ads for in the next step and where you can create relevant landing pages for if you do not have these landing pages already so all of these crm systems crm services crm programs products platform tools related keywords are going to be inside of a cluster called software since these are somewhat this can be seen as synonyms i don't i do not see a point to further further segmentate them so that's why i've created a main cluster like software and yeah we have a few more examples that you can see in this document as well so please please keep in mind that these are just examples and your individual case will be way different but this is just to give you some thought process over here to see how how you should be approaching this so let's move over to the last template and the last worksheet sheet which is number four construct and over here we're going to determine our campaign structure and ad group structure based on the clusters that we have already created so as you can see over here we have basically copied over the first couple of columns keywords categories cluster two and the last three columns are new and these are the columns that we are going to need in order to upload our newly created campaigns and ad groups with the corresponding keywords and with the corresponding landing pages so that's what we are going to do in the next video in the next video we're going to upload our campaign structure with the landing pages and keywords inside of our by using the google ads editor and then we're also going to bulk upload the responsive search ads that i have created that i've also well put inside of a google ads editor ready google sheet template that you can also use for your importing work and this basically shortcuts the campaign creation process and makes it way faster you only need to obviously create the structure and responsive search as yourself but if you are able to templatize everything then you'll be able to bulk upload everything and that will save you a lot of hours in manual in-app work so let's continue with where we left off so i'm going to quickly hide the first couple of rows and then basically try to lock this row freeze one row format view freeze up to row 14 there we go so now it's easier for you to see and keep track of the different column names as you can see over here it starts to become more clear how you should approach your campaign and ad group structure so basically the work has been has already been done for 95 percent in the previous step the categorization step where you created these clusters and based on all of the information inside of the clusters you can now start to craft your ad groups and these are essentially these could be the same creative themes and the only thing that you want to check over here is to see if the ad groups can be further consolidated or have to be further consolidated based on certain search volumes, for example. So let's take a look at these two keywords. We have online CRM and web-based CRM. I clustered them inside of a CRM online cluster, but as you can see, I've grouped them together inside of a generic CRM ad group. And that is because I think, even though we can further specify this and further cluster this inside of a online slash web-based cluster it is perfectly fine to include this within a generic CRM related ad group because inside of the headlines and the description lines and inside of the landing pages that we're going to create we can definitely use the words online or web-based one two or maybe three times in order to make it more relevant for these long tails. So I do not feel the necessity to further specify this cluster into, for example, a CRM online sub ad group. I think it's perfectly fine to consolidate this. Same goes for CRM data, CRM leads, CRM management, most popular CRM, popular CRM, simple CRM. These are all quite generic keywords. If you want to further specify and further specify your creative theme in order to, for example, write more headlines and more description lines towards the word simple or popular, and you want to create a landing page that also zooms in on this n-gram or this part of the keyword, then be my guest. But oftentimes you are better off to consolidate these kinds of generic keywords inside of a generic ad group. Since I think if you were to serve a really compelling responsive search ad, including the headlines and description lines for a keyword like most popular CRM and popular CRM, that is the same as a keyword like CRM or a web-based CRM. I think the user will also click on your more generic headlines and description lines. If not, then if you have sufficient volume, you can always further specify them. But if you take a look at, for example, the search volume, the monthly search volume of these two keywords, then we have, well, together around 800 plus searches per month. and we are definitely not able to to create impressions for every single of this search so let's say we're only able to hit or create 50% of the 50% impressions of the available search volume per month per month that will definitely mean if we were to further segmentate this ad group into a CRM popular ad group, for example, that we will be lacking volume. And if you recall the best practices in terms of campaign structure and ad group structure, you should try to optimize towards at least 3000 impressions per week, per ad group, and at least 5,000 impressions per ad group per month, because those are the amount of impressions you need on ad group level in order to leverage the RSA performance labels like low, medium, or low, good, best, so keep in mind those kinds of considerations as well. So if you lack volume, let's see what online CRM and web-based CRM are doing. Yeah, the same. So these are all also combined like 900 searches per month. So if you were to advertise on this, you will definitely not hit those times of kinds of volumes in terms of impression levels so these are also too small to to segment out so that's why you want to group them together inside of a more generic ad group if it makes sense then we have a few more specific long tails where you have to think about hey should i consolidate this within a more generic ad group like crm or does it make sense to create a more relevant landing page for this and create more relevant headlines and description lines for maybe despite of the searches per month because you are because you want to prioritize relevance over volume so that can be a consideration as well so for example if people are searching for CRM analytics, then people are really looking for the analytics feature inside of a CRM platform, tool, software, or whatever. So I think it wouldn't be really wise to consolidate a term like CRM analytics inside of CRM, because if people see a generic headline inside of your CRM ad group, when searching for CRM analytics, your ad might not be really effective and your landing page might not be really effective at as well but obviously you have the possibility to create a keyword level finder url for a keyword like crm analytics but i'm more thinking about the creative theme over here so the relevancy of the headlines and the description lines so same applies to marketing so over here a person is looking for a crm that includes marketing or maybe marketing automation features as well so i wouldn't necessarily consolidate that with crm as well since there are really a lot of reasons to to segment this out and to make your ad more compelling and your landing page more compelling if you were to zoom in on crm marketing automation or a crm with a lot of marketing features embedded so this is the way you should approach your constructing process definitely take a look at the clusters and the categories that you have already created and then basically think about the best practices that we have went over in the last couple of lessons and think for yourself if it makes sense to consolidate or to segment out you can also see that i have marked few keyword rows red and this is what i also what i always like to do because during the categorization process the structure the structuring process or i have to say the constructing process step number four you need to see where you are going to direct the traffic to as well so over here i have basically looked up the available landing pages of hubspot and over here i've created a node for the slash product slash crm landing page that I think we should create a more relevant landing page for this keyword or this ad group, like CRM analytics, CRM marketing, CRM nonprofits, or CRM sales. Because if we were to point traffic towards the generic headline, I think it will lack relevancy and we are better off creating a sub landing page that zooms in on the analytics features or the marketing automation features or how this CRM really applies for non-profit organizations or how you can leverage this CRM to increase your sales. So this is how you should think about the landing pages that you want to map. Let me hide this real quick. That you want to map to this specific ad group and make sure to mark all of the keywords and or ad groups that you think you do not properly have a landing page for as of now. So what I mean by that is that you shouldn't cluster based on the available landing pages that you have right now, but you should think from a ideal scenario. So you really have to think, okay, if I were to consolidate or segment out a ad group for CRM analytics, and let's say I want to segment this out because I think it can be more relevant while still maintaining the volume to hit those best practices, then, well, what I definitely need is besides creating more relevant headlines and description lines for CRM analytics, I also need a more relevant landing page because if I do not create a more relevant landing page for let's say CRM analytics, then yeah, what's the point of segmenting out this keyword inside of a new segmented out ad group if the only sole thing is going to be more relevant ads. I think you should always account for the landing pages as well. So make sure to factor that in inside of your thought process during the constructing phase as well. So these are just a couple of simple thought processes and these are really specific to your individual situation. So I cannot really give you examples for your specific situation because you have to do this for yourself, but you have to really think with the best practice in mind and with the creative themes in mind. So always try to create the most relevant creative themes as possible while maintaining ad group volume. So you can leverage the machine learning related features like responsive search ads and the responsive search ads performance labels. So that's about it for lead gen. Let's quickly zoom in on e-comm. So for e-com, I've also created a really simple example for a potential hypothetical client called Coolblue, which is a big Dutch e-commerce player in electronics. So this is where in the previous step, we've also categorized the keywords inside of a couple of main categories and a couple of clusters. So over here, I only did this for the main category television. So I've categorized all of the television-related keywords inside of a television main category. And that main category can or cannot be your sole campaign. We will dive into that specific thought process in a bit. And then I've also clustered them based on the long tails inside of the keywords. So over here, you are seeing people searching for 24-inch smart television. So they are looking for television. they're looking for a smart television and if it's possible they're looking for a 24 inch smart television so those are basically the clusters that I have created and based on those clusters you can start seeing your campaign structure and ad group structure starting to form so if we hop over to construct these same columns have been copied over and then we also have a few couple of new columns campaigns ad group and find a url over here so this is where i have created a couple of campaigns because the main category is television so you can basically use one main campaign for all of the television related keywords but i've decided to split them up as you can see so if i were to sort on campaign name i have a generic campaign for all of the generic keywords like the inches television types like smart television q led television the flat or curved television stuff like that and i've also started to segment out different campaigns for different brands and why have i why did i choose for this and why did i choose to do Basically, I think, keeping in mind this is a really big advertiser and you're going to spend a lot of money on these kind of long tails, keeping in mind all of the search volumes on keyword level as well, I think you want to allocate really specific daily budgets to specific categories. Because I think, first of all, the margins will differ on specific brands. For example, Samsung might or might not be more, might have or might not have a higher margin than, for example, LG or Panasonic televisions. So you might want to bid more aggressively on Samsung related televisions than on LG and Panasonic related televisions slash keyword themes. So if you want to bid more aggressively, maybe using a different bidding strategy or just a lower ROAS target or a more aggressive POAS target, then I think that is in itself a great reason to segment out your campaigns. But maybe you also feel the need to allocate more budget towards the Samsung cluster instead of the LG cluster because you simply have more Samsung televisions in stock and you want to bid more aggressively or you want to allocate more budgets inside of your constrained monthly budget towards Samsung because you want to sell more of those televisions because you have a big pile of stock in your warehouse. Whereas you have a fewer amount of LG televisions, so you want to allocate less daily budget on those televisions instead of combining it together where LG-related terms might cannibalize a lot of spend away from your Samsung-related keywords. So these are just two simple reasons to segment out your campaigns already. Just for the sake of this example, I have created separate campaigns for generic and brands. you can see all of the different reasons to segment your campaigns in a past video about campaign structure best practices if you want to re-watch that i would highly recommend re-watching that if you do not know about all of the reasons to segment out your campaign then it is time to zoom in on the ad group at group level so i've decided to create one generic television ad group for generic keywords like TVs for sale, television, best TV brand, best television, best buy TV. So these are all quite generic in my eyes and they can be grouped together while still maintaining a really relevant creative team. You can also point them towards your main category slash EN slash televisions. Since these people are using informational searches, you want to use a informational landing page where you can direct people or advise people to to consider specific brands or specific sizes or specific types like smart curved 4k whatever so you have to really be generic since these terms are informational and then it starts to become quite specific quite specific real soon so over here you see people searching for 120 Hertz television, which is a high refresh rate, you can see that we have a great filtered landing page for this. And I think we can create relevant RSA items for this. That makes it more relevant than putting this inside of a generic ad group like television, because if we are able to split this out, we're able to repeat or include the word 120HZ way more often than if we were to consolidate it inside of television. I think if you were to consolidate it, it doesn't even make sense to include the word 120HZ because it's such a specific long tail. So that's why I've chosen to segment this out. Same applies for inch related, inch related keywords so at first I thought hey if people are searching for specific inch sizes maybe I should just create one television dash inch ad group so where I just can put all of the inch related keywords together but yeah if you were to do that then that would mean that your RSA your responsive search ad should be really generic as well in order to still yeah be relevant for all these searches but while doing that it will be highly irrelevant since if people were to search for 32 inch television and you are including something like hey you can find televisions within the range 24 inch until 60 inch at kublu.nl you're not really hitting on the specific inch size people are looking for in their search so that's why i've decided to segment them out that will enable you to include 32-inch inside of your headlines, description lines as well, while also being able to create a really specific filtered landing page for the inch size 32-inch that you can see over here. So that was my thought process with regards to the inch sizes. Then we have, which is a nice example as well, then we have the ad group television 4k so over here you can see that i have grouped together 4k 128 sheet television and 4k television so why did i choose to consolidate these two terms instead of creating a more specific ad group for this specific keyword for let's say like this So I have decided to consolidate these two together inside of TV4K instead of using a further segment like TV4K120HC because of the lower volumes. So let's say if we were to unhide this and we were to search for, where is it? Where is it over here? If we were to look up the volumes for this keyword, which is really high for the American market, but let's say I were to do this for the Netherlands, you would have way lower volumes. so maybe taking a look taking a look at the search volumes any possible impressions that we can hit for for this term if we were to have a really infinite budget and were to be able to hit the auctions every single time then you could further segment out this inside of a its own ad group so to say so just looking at the volumes and the possible impressions per ad group if you were to really have a high budget and really were able to hit and enter every single auction then you should be able to to create a more specific ad group like but for this case i decided to consolidate this together because it's just a minor detail the 128g and what you can do instead is to write a 4k related rsa ad where you include 4k inside of the headlines inside of the description lines and just use a more specific final url on keyword level so maybe while using this landing page let's take a look we can use a more specific landing page if it lets us filter yeah there we go there we go so over here you see the refresh rate on the left hand side so people are looking for 120 hertz so 100 hertz is well relatively close but essentially people are looking for a refresh rate that isn't part of this category so that means that we do not have a proper category yet but what we can do is to create two filters for 100 hertz since it is so close and a filter for 144 to include a even more premium hc television in there so that will give us a and once again this is just an example so that will give a filtered url and this url can be used on the final url keyword level so this is an approach that you can use as well your campaign and ad group structures are not finite so if you if you have set this live and you are seeing that your quality scores and your ad rank aren't really optimal for a keyword like television 4k 120 hc then you might still come to the conclusion that you want to create a second ad group where you segment this out so eventually you might end up with a segmented out ad group like this because this way you can integrate 128c inside of your headlines and description lines and that will hopefully boost the ad relevancy and the expected click-through rate and that might increase volumes and conversion volumes. So always keep in mind that these are just starting points. You want to create a close to optimal campaign structure right from the start, but it isn't finite. You can always further optimize this or use different approaches while you are on the go. So I think that's a nice example that I just gave you as well. Then just quickly look at two more examples. So over here, We have a cluster curved and cluster flat screen. As you can see, people are looking for specifically curved televisions or flat screen televisions. So that's why I have created two more additional ad groups as well, instead of just consolidating them inside of, for example, TV, and this is because obviously you want to touch on the curved or flat screen part of the keyword. you want to make the creative theme as relevant as possible and you do so by creating a segment but i've made this red because i think as a google ad specialist you should create a segment for these two ad groups and these two keywords but we do not have a proper landing page yet at our disposal so that's why i have created them red and i've created a note over here as well where you can basically instruct your stakeholders, your client to create a filter or a more specific landing page that you can use for this RSA. And that will definitely increase the relevancy of your ad group as a whole, since the creative theme will become way more powerful where your headlines, description lines are really relevant and where your landing page is also relevant as well. That's why you have to keep an eye on the available landing pages and the landing page to be created. Be really specific about this and keep in mind the volumes still. So over here, we can see that we have plenty of volume to segment this out into a separate ad group. That's it. Those are just my thought processes over here. I think, I hope that was clear. If not, feel free to reach out. In the next video, we're going to show you how you can actually upload this structure, basically the core structure of your campaign, leveraging the keywords, campaigns, and ad groups while using the Google ads editor to basically shortcut your Google ads search campaign creation. So let's zoom in on that specific part and then also take a look at how we can bulk upload RSAs that we have created for these ad groups as well. So see you in the next video. Hopefully this was of great value. Ciao, ciao.
