# Expanding headlines with powerful descriptions

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Creatives
- **Duration:** 15:56
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

In the previous video, we touched on how to write compelling and hopefully converting headlines. So in this video, I would like to expand on that by looking at how you can expand on your headlines with powerful description lines. So in this lesson, you will learn how to write descriptions that support your headlines, technical requirements and best practices in terms of writing description lines, and how to maintain a message consistency throughout your ad and also on your landing page. So why do description lines matter? Well, you have way more space, up to 90 characters per description line, to support and expand your headlines. You can provide additional value propositions. You can be more complete, more compelling. You can address potential objectives in a better way because there's more room to address them. And you can also expand in a general way on your irresistible offers. So generally speaking, there's just more room to expand on what you already try to capture through your headline angles that we discussed in previous video in order to make your ad more compelling as a whole. So there are some technical requirements that you need to be aware of. You have 90 characters per description line. You can add up to four description lines per RSA, per responsive search ad. You can add at least two description lines per ad. So two or more description lines are required not two or more at least two description lines are required description lines can also be pinned to specific positions either position one or position two in order to tell the algorithm the order of both of the description lines and you can also include dynamic elements if you want to so basically what you need to know is that your headings your headlines are guiding the way you are going to write your description lines this is what i find the easiest way of thinking about your description lines is that you want to expand on your headlines and be more compelling and basically telling more about your irresistible offer. What you can also do, but that's what I personally do not like to do, but it is a possibility. You can also start with your description lines and then refer it backwards from that content to compelling headlines, basically trying to make several snippets, at maximum 30 characters long per headline from the description lines you've already wrote. But like I said, from my experience, it works better when starting out with your headlines per angle that you would like to touch on and then expand on that through your description lines. So the headline fundamentals apply to description lines as well. So the only thing that is different between writing compelling description lines and writing compelling headlines is basically the first point over here. So the first point when writing compelling description lines is that you want to support your headlines and you want to ensure that your description lines complement all of the headline messages that you basically added to your responsive search ad. The rest, number two until number four, remain the same. So you still want to match your keyword theme. You still want to maintain a message consistency. And you also want to leverage the elements when it makes sense to apply them in order to make your ad more appealing and more relevant. so in the next couple of slides we're going to dive deeper into supporting your headlines because that's the core difference between well headlines and description lines and what we've already discussed and went over in the previous video so in order to make this more sense to you i would like to give you a couple of examples based on headshot pro once again so headshot pro is a SaaS tool supplying you as a customer with AI headshots, where you can basically create professional business headshots without doing a physical photo shoot. So we already touched on the clear value proposition, the uniqueness, the unique selling points, the value boosters, the social proof and the risk removals. So I'm not going to dive deep into that. I just want to show you how you can go from your headlines in this particular example over here to your description lines so they basically go hand in hand and make your description lines supporting your headline so to say so we have the headlines pro headshots without studio skip the photoshoot today and professional photos from home we can create a compelling description and translate those to professional grade headshots from the comfort of your own home no studio needed or studio quality headshots without the hassle of scheduling and travel give it a try so over here you can see how we can easily translate the the message angle to the headlines and from headlines also to description lines quite easy next up usps ai technology delivers eight times faster than traditional photography so when looking at the headlines we have ai enhanced photo quality photos ready in two hours and eight times faster than photo shoots we can easily make your translate that to compelling description lines by looking for example at these two professional headshots delivered in just two hours faster than ever before or capture professional headshots eight times faster than traditional photo shoots see how these are really in line with the headline headlines that we went over already and you're basically able to expand on that and make it a more compelling ad in total that is basically what you're trying to do over here next up value boosters includes 200 plus variations customizable backdrops and linkedin preview tool well headlines 200 plus styles to choose from customize your headshots and dozens of unique backdrops we can translate that to unlimited creativity with over 200 professional styles at your fingertips or tailor every single detail of your headshot to perfectly represent your personal brand quite easy really nice example once again social proof over 102 000 satisfied customers with a 4.6 out of 5 rating we also know that we have more than 1200 reviews and close to 8 18 million headshots have been generated so we already captured all of that inside of a couple of headlines as you can see over here and we can easily translate that into compelling description lines as well. The go-to AI headshot generator for 102, 207 professionals worldwide. 17 million plus headshots created. Rated 4.6 out of 5 by 1200 plus satisfied professionals. See? Last one, risk removal. 100% money back guarantee if not satisfied. We have three headlines. Love it or your money back. 100% satisfaction guaranteed. And risk-free professional photos. We can translate that into love your headshots or get your money back no questions asked or 100% risk-free love your AI generated headshots or get your money back two variations that are quite similar but you can well maybe test these into different ad variations or in a different way and we're going to dive into that inside of the optimization module later on so when your ad copy contains keywords that match a user search query those keywords are automatically bolded in your ad within the search engine result page and this is really powerful to understand because you can leverage this in order to make your ads compelling and well increase the potential click-through rate even more so i don't want you to use this tactic as a way of keyword stuffing your way to success but you can use this in order to strategically bold certain keywords inside of your ads and if you have long keywords like professional headshot creator or AI headshot generator if you know that that query is quite long and it contains a lot of different long tails then you can leverage that in order to well make your ad more compelling by making sure those keywords are included within your description lines so this is for example a search query for Sonos era 100 and you can see that Sonos era 100 is being being bolded inside of the description lines of this particular ad so over here you can also see that Sonos has been made bold and that is because well Sonos is also a word inside of the query but yeah the better you basically include your keywords inside of the description lines the more compelling it is going to be and people are scanning people are also scanning not only your headlines but also for relevancy by looking at these bolder keywords within your ad so what i would like to say with this is that you want to try to do your best in order to include your keywords in a natural way you can do so by just while trying to include all of the underlying keywords within your creative theme which is your ad group in a well static way but you can also leverage ad customizers like we went over in the previous video in order to swap out certain, well, parts of your description line based on your keywords triggered. So when writing description lines, you can either make them angle specific or you can combine different angles. So what we just went over were angle specific description lines, like this particular risk removal example. So this is just one description line per angle, but you can also combine different angles. So you can, for example, combine a core benefit angle with a feature angle you can combine a social proof angle with a value plus cta you can also combine urgency with risk reversal or you can have one or more clear call to actions for example so just to show you how this is done the first example is a core benefit plus feature professional headshots without a studio visit benefits ai enhance quality in two hours or less feature number two social proof plus value plus cta trusted by 100k professionals social proof get 200 plus variations from just 29 value get started now cta number three urgency plus risk reversal limited time save 50 today urgency 100 satisfaction guaranteed or your money back risk reversal and lastly a clear call to action combination create your headshots now cta number one upload your photos choose your style and you're done cta number two so this is how you can combine different angles as well to make your descriptions fit even more different angles and this is what i like to do because generally speaking you have more than well more than two angles and if you're going to only show well two description lines which are being shown by Google, if you're lucky, then you are going to miss out on certain strategical, well-performing angles that can people make, yeah, make, make them to click essentially. So by combining multiple single, multiple angles into just one description line, you can essentially combine multiple angles inside of the, the two description lines that are being picked by Google. So therefore this is what I would like to do. There's no right or wrong. So depending on your particular case and the angles that you have within your irresistible offer ideally you want all of the angles because that makes your offer so much more compelling like a headshots pro example depending on the angles you can make your own combination so that's what i mean by there's no right or wrong you just have to look at okay how am i going to make this as compelling as possible and then you can start well playing around with that in order to see what works and what doesn't so you want to still make sure that you are still supporting your headline messages but you still want to include your key benefits you also want to add your social proof you want to address objections and you want to have a clear call to action that drives action so ideally if you start making combinations these are the areas that you would like to address but once again if you would like to do things differently that's completely fine because the only way that you know what's going to work for you is through testing so here are some things to consider you can consider your message angle combinations and you can also consider the order of them you can test the order by partially pilling or fully pilling your your description lines but also your headlines we're going to touch on that in the testing optimization module later same applies to value propositions you can also choose between well what kind of benefits or features are you going to address which one do you think are more powerful and then let the data the site a call to action placement is also really really important are you going to place a call to action up front or at the end what is your call to action how do you make it as powerful as is how do you make sure that it fits the awareness stage of your potential customer because a get started now call to action is for the product aware most aware people if people are completely unaware well then a call to action like get started now is way too way too hot so to say so you want to try different call to actions and much more so if you want to get started in a good way then i would recommend you to use our prompt templates that you can use in order to prompt your way to success by utilizing chat gpt or cloud or even different large language models so this really really works wonders if you have a solid irresistible offer so if you are utilizing our creative excellence framework where you're basically dissecting your irresistible offer and you're plugging that into this particular prompt input together with the instructions you're going to get great great results and great outputs you can see an example of the output below for headshot pro where i've created the output if you like to work with custom gpt's you can also try out our custom gpt that also well prompts your way to success so this is more like a chat-based solution where the custom GPT is going to ask you, hey, what is your irresistible offer? What does it look like? And number two, hey, what is your target audience? And number three, hey, what is it that you're trying to achieve? Number four, how do your themes and keywords look like? And what is the awareness stage? And based on the input, based on the questions that you're getting asked, you can then also create really solid headlines that you can see in a bit. Here they're coming. So over there, we've got all of the headlines and the description lines. And this works wonders as well. So try, well, try them out. If you like to prompt yourself instead of utilizing a GPT, well, then use the prompt template. If you want to use the custom GPT, well, find the link below. I've also created two separate videos for both of these, and those will help you to better understand how this actually works. So key takeaways, support and expand. So you want to build on headline messages and provide additional details. And you ideally want to follow our framework because we didn't create this framework just for the sake of creative frameworks. We know that when you are working your way through this framework from step one all the way to step number four, you're going to craft really, really solid headlines and description lines that get people to click. So try to follow it. If you find blanks inside of your irresistible offer or you simply cannot answer the questions, then you need to go back to the drawing board together with your stakeholder in order to work on your irresistible offer in order to craft really solid creatives. Because once again, your creatives are only going to be as good as your irresistible offer.
