# Steal keyword ideas from your competitors

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Keyword research
- **Duration:** 14:25
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

Welcome in this next lesson. And this lesson is about how to steal keyword ideas from your direct competitors or your most interesting competitors. So a tool we like to use for this is SpyFu. SpyFu is a very big competitor analysis tool across the world, and they have one of the biggest databases in the biggest markets across the world in terms of competitor insights. so before we dive in i want to mention that this is a paid tool it is not free so prices start around 39 dollars per month so if you want to leverage a tool like this you have to pay for it what i tend to do is i tend to pay for a package and then do a competitor analysis and then basically cancel the payment so yeah i don't get charged every single month and the second note i want to make over here is SpyFu basically has an extensive database across the world, but only for the biggest markets. As you can see over here, they have databases from United States, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, Spain, some multiple countries, which are about 15. But if you are located in a smaller country that is less competitive with less data, like Belgium, for example then SpyFu does not have the competitor insights. So make sure to use this tool only if you have if you can use it for one of these markets. So I'm going to demonstrate this tool for for the sake of the demonstration and I'm going to pretend I am HubSpot.com and I want to see our direct competitors and I want to see their keyword strategy. So what you can do over here is you can basically enter a domain url or keyword and start your search from there and it will basically give you a big overview of your in this case your seo strategy your organic keywords your page keywords the keywords that your competitors are buying on that could be a great buying opportunity even keywords that could be a waste of money so they're giving you all sorts of ideas but i'm going to skip the overview part because the most interesting report over here is the ppc research report so within the ppc research overview we basically have an overview we can look up competitors we can see a combat which is showing us an overlap of our direct competitors we can zoom in on ppc keywords we can even see ad history so spyfu is taking ad snapshots of all of the ads and saving them in the database so you can look at the ads of yours of your own advertising account but also your direct competitors ads and it also gives you some some advices so the last two tabs are less interesting for me i am mostly interesting interested in the first four tabs so yeah let's let's start okay let's start off with our own domain which is hubspot.com and i'm going to search in the u.s market in a u.s database what this will give me is a ppc overview for the month. So over here, we can see that we are currently bidding on 8,000 plus keywords with an estimated 20K monthly PPC clicks with a estimated monthly budget of around 500K. So these are just estimations. They cannot see this. They cannot access your Google Ads account or your competitor's Google Ads account, but they can create some good estimations of what's happening. So based on these, you can already see how many keywords your competitors are advertising on and what their monthly ad budget could be. And these are interesting insights already. Over here, you can see the shared paid keywords. So the two biggest competitors are nutshell.com, but also a comparison website, top5crm.com, which are driving great affiliate revenue streams i can reckon so you have some some some overview over here you can straight you can go to the keywords from here from here straight away you can see your core keywords consider buying keywords that have lower volumes and lower cpc's that your competitors aren't advertising on currently which is a real interesting part of the tool if you scroll down you can see your direct competitors so the red line is HubSpot themselves but you can also see the bigger or the biggest competitors which are for example pipedrive.com and sentinblue.com so the two lines over here which are using a lot of keywords that we aren't using so some interesting insights over there if we scroll down we can essentially see the most successful paid keywords based on the search volume and the monthly cost but also we get some cpc estimations we can see the estimate estimate of the clicks going to paid So over here, we can see that 20.9% of all of these searches on CRM software basically result in a paid click and close to 80% is going to organic searches. And we can also see the mobile searches, which is a percentage from there. So over here, we can see that a lot of people are still using desktop for these kinds of searches since they are more business related and maybe the US is a different market than the Netherlands because in the Netherlands mobile app traffic or mobile traffic is really really high we can also see some history over here so I already told you SpyFu creates snapshots of the ads so you can do some competitor analysis of your competitors over here as well which is interesting to do at they give you some buy recommendations that you can further explore for example crm email should be a great buy because it has not really a lot of impressions per month but not all competitors are buying into this specific query and it should be relatively cheap so that's interesting to look at as well so this is just a core overview not really interesting what is more interesting is looking at your biggest competitors so let's pretend we are HubSpot, we can see that our biggest competitors are Top5CRM, Nutshell, YStamp and Exclaimer.com based on this top prioritization. You can also see other competitors if you scroll down, where you see the different domains of your competitors with a certain overlap, progress bar. You can also see the common keywords. So this is where you see the keyword overlap of your biggest competitors. Over here, we see monday.com, which is one of the biggest competitors with regards to a project management tool that they have 1.5K common keywords. They're also bidding on the same keywords, which are 1.5K. And over here, you can see some additional metrics as well. So really interesting stuff. So if you want to zoom in on certain competitors, you can easily click on one of these competitors like PipeDrive.com and once you click on one of the competitors you will basically start searching for the competitor and the whole PPC research tab and all of the other tools will be tailored towards that specific domain or that specific competitor. Really interesting. If we head over to combat you can see the overlap between a couple of competitors so you can add domains yourself so you can add your biggest competitors over here. Obviously SpyFu will come with some competitors already based on the number of keywords, the overlap, but you can add or remove domains yourself. So let's say salesforce.com and Zoho CRM are the biggest competitors. I'm able to add them to this competitor analysis over here. And we can see a overlap between all of our competitors. And then we can further zoom in on the keywords, core keywords, consider buying keywords that we are not currently buying. At least that's what Spyfu is telling us. And we can zoom in on the total amount of keywords where all of these domains are currently buying on already. So the seed keyword list basically starts here. So let's say we are looking for keyword ideas for our core service which is a crm we can then further zoom in on crm so let's say we want to do some keyword research for crm so over here you're going to start seeing great input for your seed keyword list and once again seed keyword lists are not it's not your long tail keyword research already so it's not something that you want to expand on immediately but you're looking for high level keywords high level input which are at most two or three word length queries like crm software or crm as a short tail themselves or crm meaning all of these kind of short tails you want to combine, collect, put in your seed keyword list that I've shown in the previous video that you have created a copy for already. And later in the next step, we want to expand on those keywords with our long tail keyword research. So we can see all kinds of similar keywords for CRM. This is really interesting. We can also see questions with the monthly volume, really interesting for informational searches we also have keywords that are also ranked for other types of keywords like crm system crm software crm meaning with the volumes behind it and we can also see that a lot of our direct competitors like top5crm and nutshell.com have also bought ads for the following keywords. So without even zooming in on these long tails, we can already see a lot of interesting seed keywords that we want to expand on. We can see keywords like CRM software, best CRM, CRM platform, CRM program, free CRM. We can see CRM meaning, what is a CRM, which is similar with the meaning short tail we see keywords like competitor related keywords crm monday crm zoho so these are all interesting seed keywords that we want to note and want to put in our seed keyword list so if you want to expand on certain keywords any further you can head over to view all and this will give you this will bring you to the second tab in the keyword research tab and it will bring all of the CRM-related keywords. And these are basically sorted on, or you can sort them on volume. So you see CRM, CRM Monday, CRM Software, Zoho CRM, all the ones that we saw already. This is just a big list where you can get some inspiration for your seed keyword list. But we're already going a lot further than we're supposed to do, supposed to do because we want to populate our seed keyword list over here based on our competitor research so the competitor research over here is the most important part so let's say we want to expand on our top5crm.com competitor and we want to find ppc keywords that top5crm.com is bidding on. We can easily see that they are bidding on terms like Salesforce, which is a direct competitor. That will be a really expensive keyword. They're also bidding on the generic keyword like CRM, CRM software, CRM, best CRM, free CRM software, but also for specific business types like real estate CRMs. So these are incredibly insightful keywords that you see over here that you can use in your keyword research. So make sure to take a look around in this tool, fill in your top competitors. You can let SpyFu find your top competitors. But what you can also do is if you are advertising Google Ads already, you can head over to your auction insight report and then basically see your biggest competitors based on the overlap rate or the search impression share and just fill in all of your competitors over here as well and then start filling your keyword seed list for every single service or every single product that is worth exploring so for HubSpot it will be CRM it will be the topic marketing automation it will be the topic knowledge base it will be the topic project management etc etc etc create separate columns for every single topic generic topic and then add the interesting seed keywords below so this is how you use spyfu which is a little demonstration make sure to check out the tool if you want to pay for it for it if your market is available inside of their database and hopefully you will get some nice insights out of here. So see you in the next lesson.
