# Keyword match types

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Keyword targeting
- **Duration:** 11:43
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

So let's start off with a new lesson, which is quite basic around keyword match types. So if you've been around the Google ads for a while, this can be quite basic, but it can be a good refresher as well. So in this lesson, you will learn the keyword match types currently available, and you will learn how and when to leverage the available keyword match types currently available right now. So let's zoom in. So this is a nice visual we've created around the keyword match types currently available. And right now there are three main keyword match types available for us to use as a Google Ads specialist. We have broad match, phrase match, and exact match, as you can see. And in this visual, we have listed how this match types or how these match types work. We will also give you some example matches. So what if you leverage a certain keyword for a specific match type? What kind of search terms or queries can you be matched upon? And we will tell you some strategies for each match type to use. If you've been in Google Ads for a while, basically not a lot have changed. The biggest change that we have had in the past couple of years was the removal of broad match modified where you were able to use a plus sign before every single long tail keyword in order to restrict the algorithm a bit and basically have the match type acted as a sort of phrase match matching option we have right now. So Google has removed this match type I think around three years ago already we cannot use it anymore so right now we have just three core match types i think the possibility is there that google will change the match types in the near future as we move towards a more broad match targeting and a more audience-based targeting but as of now we still have phrase match and exact match luckily to use for specific cases So let's start off with Broadmatch first. By using Broadmatch, ads may show on searches that are related to your keywords, which can include searches that do not contain the direct meaning of your keywords. So they are quite similar, related, but they do not necessarily have to include the same meaning or intent of the keyword you are inserting. So the syntax for broad match is to simply input the keyword inside of Google Ads without any symbols or whatever. So let's say you are using the broad keyword low carb diet plan. And basically you're telling Google with this keyword, you want to be matched on queries that are related to this specific keyword. but they do not necessarily have to have the same meaning or intent behind them so in this case you can be matched on queries like carb-free foods low-carb diets low-calorie recipes or mediterranean diet books so as you can see over here the matching is quite broad and basically what broad match does here is it gives you the widest reach possible and this is ideal when optimal keywords are uncertain and it simplifies your keyword list creation creation it also gives you the opportunity to to expand beyond the keywords that you are currently using so yeah basically due to this loose matching this loose keyword matching you're able to scale beyond the meaning and intent of the keyword you're currently using but it will also result in a lot of irrelevant queries since google will match your keyword on everything that could be related so there are a couple of important remarks to be made over here that we will zoom in on in a future video where you have to make sure that a few conditions are met before you are starting to leverage broad match because if you do not use certain conditions or certain rules before using broad match the matching might be wildly irrelevant and your spend might be wasted but yeah i think broad match could be very well the future. We're seeing some great signs already, but we will zoom in on that part in a future video. Next to broad match, we have phrase match and exact match. And let's start off with phrase match first. Using phrase match ads may show on searches that include the same meaning of your keyword. The meaning of the keyword can be specifically implied by the user, but it can also match on searches that are more specific of the meaning. The syntax of the phrase match is to use quotes. So like you want to quote someone, those quotes are used for the phrase match keyword option. So let's say you were to use the phrase match keyword tennis shoes. In this case, you can be matched on queries like shoes for tennis, buy tennis shoes on sale, red tennis shoes or comfortable tennis sneakers. So as you can see over here every single query basically has the same meaning. So a person looking for comfortable tennis sneakers where sneakers is different from the word shoe is still being matched because of the same meaning the same implied meaning of the search query so phrase match is an ideal phrase match when you want to balance between the reach and the relevance i think phrase match is an ideal match type for advertisers that want to remain somewhat of control but still are looking for a scalability within their search campaigns where Google can expand a little bit as long as the meaning of the search query corresponds to the keyword being used. So where PhraseMatch is also being used is in specific verticals where the order of the words really matter. So a few years ago, PhraseMatch was mainly used for the word or the search query order. it still can be but right now phrase match is mainly used for the the synth or the matching possibilities where google is basically looking for queries that have the same meaning or the same implied meaning but previously a few years ago people used phrase match to basically catch long tails or queries that were in a specific order and that specific that specific technique is still being included in phrase match and it can still be included and used for verticals like travel where a specific ticket seller plane ticket seller might only want to be shown on queries where the cities from let's say we have a query from plane ticket from amsterdam to new year new york where the order from amsterdam to new york is really important because if you flip them around then the offer doesn't make sense anymore since the seller specifically wants to be found on a specific word order like amsterdam to new york and not new york to amsterdam but i think this currently applies to less than five percent of the advertisers using a phrase match and phrase match is mainly used for the the matching and where phrase match is being used to match on keywords that have the same meaning of the query lastly we have exact match and exact match is also one of the match types currently used by a lot of advertisers exact match used to be really exact where you had to basically insert a lot of different keyword combinations to tell google on what kind of combinations you wanted to be found right now google is quite loose in exact match targeting and they will match your keywords on queries as long as they have the same meaning and or the same intent as your keywords so they still give you the most control and the most steering over who views your ads and the syntax for exact match is to use square brackets so the little square brackets before and after your first and last words so let's take a look at the example so over here we see an example like shoes for men and using an exact match keyword like this will result in matches like shoes men men shoes men shoe or shoes for a man so as you can see over the meaning and the intent is the same as your initial keyword. Google is allowed to match on these close variants. So they do not have to match your exact keyword specifically. So they are able to match on a lot of close variants. And this results in a lot of more matches than a few years ago since a few years ago you might have missed queries like shoes for a man and right now google is able to match on this by just using a keyword like shoes for men so exact match offers you the highest level of control you can target searches that share the exact intent as your keywords and this is perfect for targeting specific audiences or focusing on high value search queries. It is also an ideal match type if you want to isolate on a specific subset of keywords or queries that you want to match on. ExactMatch has still some great use cases in practice and we will zoom in on that in a future video. If you take a look at the keyword match type currently available you will see that from left to right from ExactMatch all the way to from BroadMatch all the way to exact match will result in loose matching to tight matching and it is up to you and your business goals what match types to use and we will zoom in on that specific part in a future video so let's first zoom in on how a keyword matching actually works before diving in in the keyword match type best practices and use cases so let's continue to the next video We'll be right back.
