# Keyword selection thought process example

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Keyword targeting
- **Duration:** 16:29
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

Hey, what's up and welcome to this new video and this is just a short video to show you how you can think about your initial keyword selection. This is a really simple example and it is highly individualized per company and per situation. So this is just about the actual thought process over here. Your individual case or your individual cases will highly differ from the situation that I will be showing you right now but it's about the thought process once again. So in this video we are going to pretend we are going to set up a campaign for marketing automation tool related keywords since we want to promote our marketing automation tool but we have a constrained budget of 3k per month so 100 euros per day and we're looking for a way to to spend that money the most effective way we can one thing that you can do in order to see how you can spend that fixed budget the most effective way is by is by leveraging your keyword research document and the keyword planner forecast tool so first of all let's go to the sample the sample that i've created for the keyword research template and over here you can see some marketing automation related keywords so i've already categorized this in marketing automation you're seeing the keywords over here the category in column b the monthly search volumes in the usa in column c the competition index, the low-end CPC and the high-end CPC. We are looking at just this subset of keywords. So this is just a campaign for marketing automation specifically. As you can see over here, we have some huge volumes already on a short tail like marketing automation. So we have more than 5,000 searches on average every single month and the cpc starts at 882 if we want to buy in on the top the the top listings above the organic listings and it goes all the way up to close to 30 euros a click so i can already tell you just by seeing these volumes and by looking at the average is that the volumes are way too high in comparison to the available budget of €3,000 per month. So we can do a quick calculation. If we can grab our calculator and we can just grab an average of the CPCs you're seeing over here. So I will just take the €8.82 of the marketing automation short tail. I think the average is a little bit higher looking at the CPCs. But if I were to divide the €3,000 per month by the average low-end CPC for the top-of-page ad listings by €8.82, that will result in about 340 clicks per month. So divided by 30 is close to 10, 11 clicks per day. So that's not a lot. And if I were to add up all of these monthly search volumes, I think those are close to 10,000 searches per month, and I were to multiply them by an expected click-through rate of, for example, 5%, then the amount of clicks that I could potentially get is way higher than the amount that I could get within the 3,000 euros per month fixed budget. the 100 euro per day by just looking at the monthly search volumes and the average cpc's real quick real quick and dirty i can already tell you that we have to start off picking high intent possibly high roi long tails or keywords that are at least a little bit more specific than a short tail like marketing automation the thing that we want to do is basically want to go over our keywords and take a look at the keywords that could be interesting to start off with so we're looking for the high intent keywords first then move over to the forecast within the keyword planner and see if we can spend our daily budget of 100 euros per day on those long tails alone and if so then I think that would be a great place to to start and if we book success if the campaign is converting if we can obtain a higher daily budget by the client by the stakeholders then we can add in additional keywords I have taken a look at the list of the possible interesting keywords and I think we have to look for keywords like marketing automation platforms, marketing automation system, marketing automation tools slash tooling. So those keywords are the most interesting since people are looking for a tool, a system, a solution, a platform and I think people searching for those keywords have a very high intent and a very high possibility of converting we do not want to start off with keywords like marketing automation crm marketing automation marketing automation companies is a little bit fake and broad already as well ai for marketing automation is a little bit inform informational instead of commercial transactional so we just want to focus on tools system platform tooling long tails like those so what you want to do is to create a small list of these keywords and use uh use an exact match and a phrase match for those since we are on the constraint budget over here we do not want to go full broad we want to start off with phrase match exact match and basically tell google ads to go after queries that has the same meaning and or the same intent of those keywords and i'm just going to stick with phrase and exact for now so we're going to copy those keywords that i've already formatted in the correct syntax and then we want to move over to the keyword planner over there we want to head over to get search volume and forecast and we're going to copy paste in the formatted keywords that we think we can spend our daily budget on from the first day at least that's what we want to see then we want to hit get started we want to select the correct location I'm just going to use the USA right now and over here you can already see some average monthly searches coming in already some different top of page bit low range high range and huge CPCs already from here we want to head over to forecast and as you can see over here we can create a forecast for let's say september 2023 and it will look back at the historical data of these keywords formatted in the correct syntax so it's basically forecasting what you can achieve in terms of clicks impressions costs etc in the corresponding match type you can also throw in broad match over here and then we want to see if there's room to spend or not we have a daily budget of 100 euros this is already set correctly so we are spending 3 000 euros in the month of september and google ads is expecting we can get 12 conversions within a estimated conversion rate of three percent so this is an estimation that you can override yourself so if you expect based on your historical data from other campaigns other networks you can create an estimation for yourself let's say two and a half percent and then google ads will adjust the forecast based on that conversion rate So right now you can see that if we were to bid on these keywords and we were to use maximize conversions as a bidding strategy, we should be able to hit 12 conversions per month and we should be able to fully outspend our daily budget without creating a gap. And you can double check on this by clicking on the little arrow and you will see a graph, a line chart that tells you how much more you can spend for these keywords alone, for these keywords alone. So right now that we can basically, we're basically plateauing at around two and a half K per month, sorry, two and a half K per day. so that's 25 as high as we are outspending right now and that will result in 25 conversions per month so those conversions will become extremely expensive but that the line is more reasonable over here so let's say we still have eight times the daily budget to spend on these keywords alone that are really, that already have a high intent, we can go a step further. So let's say we really want to be picky in where Google is going to spend our money on, then we can simply remove the phrase match keywords. Over here, Google is looking at queries that have the same meaning. So it's already very specific and you're already limiting the system in a correct way of what we are looking to achieve over here. but by only looking at exact match we will also instruct the keyword match type and the algorithm basically to look for queries that have the same intent so that's even more interesting maybe so by removing those keywords we can simply look at if we can still spend yeah over here there you go So you're looking right now at just the exact match keywords and you're seeing the forecast flatlining. So there aren't enough conversions to show forecasts. So conversions are dropping. They still give you an idea of the clicks and the cost you're able to acquire. But this is not looking good. So I think this is the lower part of the range. So I think we're just going to add the phrase match keywords again. And I think that will be a great starting point at group one, great starting point for now. Yeah, there we go. So now we have our forecast again, way more data, interesting CPC, CPC is lowering, maximize conversions is able to hit our targets. You can also play around with different automated strategies. You're not able to insert a target, unfortunately, but this is already giving you a lot of information to properly to properly use for your keyword selection process already so let's say let's let's say that we do not have a budget of 3 000 euros per month but we have a budget of 10 000 euros per month so let's say our daily budget is 350 euros close to 11k per month. So that will result in way more conversions, as you can see. And the algorithm is automatically seeing opportunity to bid more aggressive. So our CPC is increasing from six euros to basically 14 euros to the higher range of the CPC range. And we are still able to fully spend the available budget on these terms alone. So think about that for a minute. On just these six keywords alone, we are able to spend our fully, yeah, our daily budget to the max of 350 euros per day. And we're still not outspending, outbidding like crazy. We still have room to go for the upper range of the CPC band, but I think that will become too expensive and it will be more interesting to throw in a lot of additional keywords to look for additional long-tail volume that could be interesting as well. This forecast is ideal to play with to give you a sense of what is achievable within your monthly budget. If you do not have a fixed budget, you can still use this tool to see what you can achieve for a specific daily budget What your CPA could be, so over here, it is estimating that we have an average CPA of 560 euros based on an average conversion rate of 2.5% using the maximized conversions bidding strategy. You can also use these data points for different purposes when you do not have a fixed budget and you do not have to look for, hey, what keywords can I remove that are too generic so i end up with high intent long tail keywords that i can still well fully spend my limited budget on so this is really helpful i should i want to encourage you to use this this tool so what you can do you can basically throw in your complete filtered keyword research in this you can even create several ad groups for this if you want so if we want to add multiple keywords already we can also do that by creating different ad groups or you can create different forecasts for different ad groups which is also cool so google is already using this for their campaign creation process as well over here you can instantly create a campaign which is quite smart already but use this tool mainly for the forecasting purposes because it is really good at that always make sure to select the correct geographical location otherwise you're looking at the wrong data and yeah just experiment with this remove certain keywords add in additional keywords try messing around with different keywords so if i were to throw in marketing automation automation tool as a broad match keyword without any syntax you will immediately immediately see that google is readjusting the forecast per keyword so they are basically spreading out the available daily budget over these couple of keywords. And you can also see how that impacts your conversion estimates and your average CPA. So it gives you some great guidance. That's what I want to end this lesson with. Once again, this is just a really simple estimation, a really simple illustration of what you can do with this. I cannot illustrate all of the possible examples what you can do with this since you have 100 plus different use cases so you have to see how this works for you so hopefully you found this interesting i hope to see you in a next lesson ciao
