# Ad group structure best practices

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Campaign structure
- **Duration:** 16:31
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

So now that we have campaign best practices out of the way, we can continue with ad group best practices. So in this lesson, we'll be talking ad group structure best practices, and you will learn the main reasons to consolidate your ad groups, which ad group structures best practices to follow, and some valid and invalid reasons to segment out your ad groups. So let's first start off with the main reasons to consolidate your ad groups. And the first reason is due to simplification. consolidation consolidating ad groups result in easier account management that's less prone to error and it's also easier to analyze overarching trends and make broader optimizations and this is quite similar to the best practice for campaign structure consolidation and a lot of the other reasons are also quite similar number two is automation consolidating ad groups lead to higher volumes in fewer assets. Machine learning based products like responsive search ads will learn way faster and this will eventually drive better results that are more consistent. And last but not least, we have optimization. As you have fewer entities with aggregated data points to manage, optimizations become way more actionable and impactful. It's easier to spot the ad groups that deserve attention and that can be optimized than when you have fragmented ad groups with few data points that together are making up your total volumes. So by consolidating, working with fewer data point or fewer assets, it is easier to make actionable optimizations. so let's start off with our golden rule with regards to ad group structures and that is basically to create one ad group per creative theme okay what is a creative theme then a creative theme is a unifying concept that binds together the keywords ad copy and landing pages of a particular ad group it ensures that there is a tight correlation between what the user is searching for, the ad they see, and the page they land on after clicking the ad. So that's essentially what a creative theme is. And you have to make sure that these are highly relevant and therefore really tightly correlated. So here's a little fact for you. So if you were to have 15 unpinned RSA items inside of your ad group. That alone will result in 210 two headline combinations. And if you have a three headline combinations reappearing inside of the search result pages, this will result in 2,730 unique combinations. For Google's AI to know the performance each combination needs at least 100 impressions and these are really really low and that means you need close to 300 000 impressions if you were to run unpinned rsa headlines in order to know what and what doesn't work that's why it is really important to aggregate your data points and stare towards at least 5,000 impressions per month per ad group. So let's double in the ad group best practices. And I already gave away a little bit. So creative relevance is still incredibly important. So make highly tightly themed ad groups. Strike a balance between themed keyword themes and the available landing pages. make sure your ad stands out and deliver a great landing page experience at the very same time a good consolidation hack is to structure your account according to your website and this this is a tip a rule of thumb that i use for most of the structures that i begin with and that's basically looking at the available landing pages and see how your ad group structure can take form What you can also do is if your client or your website is highly unorganized, is that you take a look at direct competitors websites, because often the bigger competitors, the bigger labels, they have a great website structure, a great sitemap that you can follow for your ad group structure inspiration, for example. Try to use one ad group per unique landing page if possible. and what you essentially have to do is to allow more volume and more query variety per ad group while staying on theme so this is really important because especially the last part is important because sometimes people go a little bit too far in consolidating and that is when their rsa is becoming too generic and not really relevant enough anymore so you have to find a great balance between one ensuring there is enough volume pumping through your ad groups while staying on theme so make sure to add as many as relevant keywords within the ad group to create relevant ads and only only further consolidate if your rsas can still be on topic do not settle with the urls currently available what you want to do is to create those missing pages and if we continue in a next lesson where we are actually going to construct the search campaign based on the keyword research template that i've shown earlier then you will also see that i have created some dummy nodes inside of the document of landing pages that i think should be created and that are missing so what i tend to do is to start off with the landing pages currently available on the website use that as a baseline for my ad group structure but if i see certain long tail and certain creative themes that that makes sense to create more relevant and more specific landing pages for when i'm still able to somewhat strive for 5 000 impressions per month per ad group or per newly segmented ad group then you should definitely ask your client to create those missing pages i would suggest letting your client or creating them anyways regardless of the volume that you're pumping because oftentimes even if you cannot hit those 5000 impressions per month per ad group it still is better for your conversion rates and general campaign performance to have those specific landing pages created for those really specific creative themes so yeah then obviously if you're running low on volume then you will miss out on certain stuff like performance labels instead of your RSA items. But if you can crank up your conversion rates and hit your CPA goals more easily and scale your campaign that way, that's a thing that I would go for any day. So make sure to be really specific on the creative themes and the landing page that you want to use ideally. Try to always maximize the impressions per ad group. So aim for 3,000 impressions per week per ad group. And you need at least 5,000 impressions per month per ad group for asset performance labels to appear. And those are the labels low, good, best that you can use to optimize your RSAs for. Try to leverage RSAs and dynamic asset features for highly relevant creatives. So you want to consolidate as much as possible. And sometimes you can leverage dynamic asset features like keyword insertion add customizers that we will touch on in another course about creatives specifically to still create relevant combinations while being able to consolidate quite heavily into a generic ad group while staying on theme try to maximize coverage and incremental reach with broader match types preferably broad match if you're running on smart bidding and if you are seeing a great fit and also try to leverage dynamic search ads that we have also touched on in the module dynamic targeting. So let's zoom in on the reasons to segment out your ad groups. And there are essentially eight reasons. So the first reason is if a keyword does not fit a current ad group and will mess up your creative relevance. So if you start to create highly, tightly correlated creative themes slash ad groups, then sometimes you will see a few or just one keyword that really doesn't fit. And if you cannot create a great fit for one or several keywords, then oftentimes you need to create a new ad group in order to maintain the creative relevance of that specific ad group. Number two is if you want to further specify ads and landing pages for different intents. So sometimes keywords, sometimes you see keywords with really, really, really specific intents with a really transactional intent or a commercial intent and based on the search term data that those are converting quite well and you might want to you might want to segment them out in order to write a more compelling and a more transactional focused RSA than the RSA that you're currently having in your consolidated ad group for example so this is a great reason to segment out your ad group as well but you need some convincing data and proof in order to do and then you have to test in order to see if segmenting out your ad group to that specific more specific ad group yeah drives better results so that's the thing you have to test with as well number three is if you want to segment the high performance for better analytics reporting and optimization so i have a clients where the volumes mainly come from 10% of the keywords and the search terms in the account so for those high performers I tend to segment out those terms into a separate ad group while still maintaining the impression thresholds per week per week and per month and that basically gives me more control and more insights of what my best performing long tails are doing inside of my campaign slash ad group. So this will also help you in trend spotting and trend identification and also in optimizing your ad groups, ads, et cetera, even further because of the 20-80 rule or 80 20 rule the other way around so this makes sense as well but if you want to go this route makes make sure to to hit the impression thresholds that i've shared earlier number four is if some keywords weren't a different ad message tone or offer than others number five is if there are landing pages that could be more directly relevant to specific keywords and this is a Tricky one, because you can also leverage landing pages on keyword level, keyword level finding URLs, where you can also further specify landing pages for specific keywords. But it could be a reason to segment out your ad group as well. But personally, I would go for the keyword level finding URL. Number six is if you need to apply negative keywords to only a subset of keywords within a specific ad group. so maybe there are certain negative keywords that are aren't really a great fit for your current creative theme your current ad group but if you were to apply them then they will also restrict the exposure on the more generic terms or more specific terms and if you do not want that then you can create a separate ad group so those negative keywords do not interfere with your other keywords number seven is if you want to use different efficiency targets for a subset of keywords. So let's say we have that 80-20 rule and we are segmenting out our best performing keywords into a separate ad group that we want to bid more aggressively on. This is not generally a path that I take. I tend to use one official goal on campaign level and not on ad group level. But if you want to test with this and you want to use a different official target, target ROAS or target CPA on ad group level, then yeah, maybe segmenting out your keywords into a new ad group makes sense. And lastly, if you want to isolate an experiment, for example, when you want to test with specific assets, landing pages, see the impact on the quality score for specific keywords or for a newly created ad group, then that could also be a valid reason to segment out your ad groups if not try to consolidate your ad groups according to the best practices that i've shared shared in a previous slide try to avoid any unnecessary segmentation since this will only hurt the algorithm like i said already you can consolidate your ad groups even further by leveraging final urls on keyword level quite easy go to your keywords add the custom column find a url and then make sure to link a more specific filtered out subcategory page for specific long tail queries that way you're still able to consolidate your ad group while making sure that you're using really specific landing pages for more specific keywords so yeah this is a great way to ramp up the volumes on ad group level while staying while staying on point so here you see a heavily segmented out ad group structure on the left-hand side. So this is a structure that I used two and a half years ago, which was a single keyword ad group based structure. And on the right-hand side, my current ad group structure. And my current ad group structure is based on the available landing pages, basically the available subcategory pages. And these are heavily consolidated. So instead of creating single keyword ad groups for every single synonym, I have decided to add them all into just one consolidated ad group. I have then altered my responsive search ads items in order to incorporate all of these synonyms and incorporate some of the most important long tails. I've also incorporated dynamic features like keyword insertion ad customizers location insert to create the responsive search ads highly dynamic and once again we will touch on the responsive search ads best practices into a separate creative course so this is this is how it looks like right now so if i come across one of those heavily single keyword ad group segmented out campaigns i will definitely call 9-1-1 since i think for most of accounts it is definitely a google ads crime nowadays so make sure to only use a scuck structure or a split by match type structure or a different structure if you have a very very good reason to do and i think for 95 plus i think even more advertisers it does not make sense to to segment out like this you're better off consolidating your your traffic into a fewer amount of assets and basically benefit from better performance better automation better insights and more freed up time that you can spend elsewhere on more impactful optimizations so that's it hopefully you learned something new oh and yeah see you in the next lesson ciao
