# Search campaign structure best practices

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Campaign structure
- **Duration:** 15:47
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

What's up and welcome to this new lesson. And this lesson is about campaign structure best practices. So this lesson is a little bit more complex than some of the others, but I will try to do my best to explain everything as clear as possible. So in this lesson, you will learn why it is important to aggregate as much data as possible, why you should avoid any unneeded segmentations within your campaign, and what the valid and unfalid reasons are to segment out your campaigns. So let's first take a look at our golden rule. Our golden rule is basically to try and always consolidate as much traffic as possible and try to prevent over-segmentation. Only segment when there's a really good reason to do. And in the next slide, in this lesson, we will zoom in on the valid reasons for segmenting out your campaigns, but always try to consolidate whenever possible. so why is it so important to consolidate and aggregate as much data as possible on campaign level basically by consolidating traffic smart bidding can look across all searches within your specific consolidated campaign to obtain the most conversions at a single efficiency target so this is the efficiency target that you have set on campaign level it therefore has the maximum flexibility to compete in more auctions and look across all possible searches to find the most conversion volume for your for your campaign essentially. So smart bidding works best when it can optimize towards the same marginal cost per conversion across all related traffic and in theory this will lead to the most possible conversion volume at a given target CPA or target ROAS on campaign level. So what does that mean? Basically, if you were to set a target CPA of 10 euro on campaign level, and this campaign is consolidated where smart bidding has the maximum flexibility to compete in additional auctions and find the most conversion volume for you, it will convert on a lot of conversions on a lot of search terms that are way cheaper of the 10 euro efficiency target but if you open up your search term report you will also see a lot of more expensive converting search terms that are way more expensive than the target cpa setting of 10 euros so sometimes you will see converting search terms with a cpa of 20 30 40 plus euros and these are your marginal conversions that are coming in in a higher marginal cpa so basically what the algorithm is trying to do it is trying to push the boundaries where it's trying to find additional conversion volume where where it possibly needs to overbid and bid way more than your average cpa target of 10 euro but it will try to make it good at really high converting search terms that can convert within your target cpa of 10 euros for example it will convert on eight or nine euro on average and it will try to find the the hat room and the space and it will use it to bid more aggressively on the marginal conversions and in order to give the algorithm the flexibility in order to well try to get these extra conversions you will need to give it the most amount of flexibility in order to do so if your traffic is segmented into separate campaigns and or ad groups smart bidding has to attain the efficiency target for each segment independently so let's say you were to you were to use five different campaigns with a different target cpa that brings in conversions at an average cpa that you're after then it will basically have to find an optimal point to attain your efficiency target where it tries to maximize the conversion volume for every single segment, which is the separate campaign, the separate five campaigns you're running. If you were to consolidate those campaigns and use just one efficiency target for that one campaign, Google has the room to be flexible and to find the last possible conversions within your efficiency target. So if you were to segment out your campaigns and and or ad groups quite heavily that can result in a higher even higher marginal cost for some of the conversions that can reduce the overall efficiency of your bid strategy and this is why we but also google tries to discourage over segmenting because you are basically limiting the the flexibility of smart bidding what we mean by that and what we would like to end with is that you only want to segment out your campaigns if you have a very good reason to do if not try to give smart bidding if you're running on a smart bidding strategy of course try to give it the room and the flexibility to maximize your potential and go after as much as volume as possible for your average overall efficiency target if you were to do this manually be my guest but you will I think have a hard time to optimize for these additional incremental conversions and sometimes or oftentimes it will result in an even higher marginal CPA. So let's take a look at when to segment out your campaigns because there are often good scenarios where you can segment out your campaigns. It's not always bad. The first reason when you want to segment out your campaign is if you have a different business objective so let's say you're trying to expand to a new market or you're trying to launch a new product category then it makes sense to create a separate or additional campaign for this objective since you might want to use a different bidding strategy or maybe different targets or maybe set different budgets in order to scale your campaigns much faster. So if you have a different business objective for a different subset of creative teams within your campaign, that is a really valid reason to segment out your campaign. If you want to segment out due to specific budget allocations, that is also a really valid reason. So let's say you are a car mechanic that we have used before and you have three core services, car maintenance in general, wind screen repair and tire changes. You might want to allocate different budgets per service because of maybe your planning, the available resources, maybe you want to improve your local exposure on certain services. So if you want to allocate specific budgets to restrict or to give certain campaigns and subcategories more room, then that is a valid reason as well number three is if you want to use campaign specific goals that are different from your current campaign so let's say you want to try and experiment with micro conversions and you want to use a different campaign specific goal to see what happens if you were to optimize for cart views or begin checkout events or specific micro micro conversions like a coupon code download or a white paper ungated download so these are all valid reasons to segment out your campaigns if you want to use different campaign specific goals and they do not meet your current campaign specific goals number four is if you want to use different campaign specific settings so let's say you were to advertise for one generic theme let's say you want to advertise for your product category televisions, then you might want to segment out your Samsung televisions and your LG televisions because you want to target your LG televisions on a different geographic region, or maybe you want to do more, you want to bid more aggressively on new customer acquisition for your Samsung related keywords in the order campaign type. So these are just two really generic examples. But if you want to use different campaign settings for a specific subset of creative themes, then it makes sense to segment out your campaigns as well. This is completely valid. Number five is if you have specific insights that the algorithm will not know. So let's say you have really specific business insights that the algorithm cannot know, doesn't know, and you aren't able to upload this through offline conversion tracking, then you might want to segment out your campaigns as well. So let's say you have an event coming up in the next two weeks where you want to promote your, or a specific Samsung frame television that is really popular right now, and you expect during that event that people will start to look for your television way more often or that you're planning a sale for that specific period where you expect way more conversion volumes coming in then you might want to segment out that specific creative theme so you can allocate a different budget maybe even a different bidding strategies for that prior to the event coming up So this is just an example as well. There are a lot of more examples, but these are specific business insights that you have, but the algorithm doesn't have. Number six is if you want to provide additional insights or reporting, maybe your management requires you to report on a, well, bucket of specific creative themes that you cannot really solve for using ad group labels keyword labels or whatever then you might want to create several buckets for specific categories or services that you might want to report more clearly on that you can see in your Looker Studio dashboards or maybe your third-party attribution software tooling. I've come across examples where my clients needed to have specific campaigns for specific categories because they use this for third-party attribution tooling for example and they had to use this across all of the advertising channels and mediums in order to see and in order to compare what works and what really doesn't work number seven is if you see attribution discrepancies so let's say you have consolidated your campaign and you have just one television campaign, where you're running different ad groups for LG televisions, Samsung televisions, generic terms like OLED, 54-inch televisions. And you're seeing that particularly the Samsung televisions is showing relatively low conversion volume inside of Google Ads. But in your attribution software tooling, you're seeing a lot of over-attribution, over-attributed conversions coming in, in comparison to Google Ads, and basically your third-party attribution tool acts as a single source of truth. So you have to take that information for granted. So that is when you want to decide, for example, to segment out your Samsung television-related keywords and bid more aggressively because it converts way better on your backend site than what google is actually showing you so this is just an simple example as well where you can also segment out your campaigns and then we have the last reason if you want to isolate a specific experiment so let's say when you want to experiment with different campaign structures different bidding strategies different budgets even maybe different geographic locations, then it is also a really valid reason to split out or segment your campaigns to see if your experiment is driving good or bad results. So you want to avoid any unneeded segmentations and only segment out your campaigns if you have one of the following valid reasons. And these are all valid reasons from our perspective so if you are segmenting out based on match types basic dimensions like geographic locations time of day day of the week gender age groups devices or even audience data segmenting out on first party data whatever then these are more oftentimes than not hurting the algorithm and hurting your performance than not doing so so try to avoid any unneeded segmentations and try to always consolidate your data points to give the algorithm the maximum amount of flexibility that it needs to find the most conversions possible within your singular Vichy target. That is the goal and I think you should set up smart bidding for success and that is the way you do it. So do not have a compelling reason, consolidate, keep it simple. if by any reason you cannot or do not want to consolidate your campaigns for example if it has been doing great for you and you are really anxious that consolidating your campaigns will reset your the learning phase and you will have to miss out on conversion data for two weeks just an example then you can also try to leverage portfolio bidding strategies because leveraging portfolio bidding strategies allows you and allows smart bidding to optimize bids across all linked campaigns to the same target to reach your overall efficiency goals and basically google is also trying to maximize your conversion volume where you also give it the maximum amount of flexibility if you link your current segmented out segmented out campaigns to a singular linked portfolio bidding strategy. So this is also a little nice hack. So what I also sometimes like to do is when I have several consolidated campaigns in place that are running on the same efficiency target, then I still like to leverage portfolio bidding strategies if they have the same target to basically enhance smart bidding with more signals from that point as well to give it even more flexibility to find those additional conversion volume for the best marginal CPA or ROAS possible. So this is a nice little hack that you can use within your campaign tactics as well. So that's it. In the next lesson, we will zoom in on some concrete examples. So hopefully you found this interesting and see you in the next lesson. Ciao.
