# How to use Google Ads Keyword Planner

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Keyword research
- **Duration:** 10:20
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

Welcome to this video, and in this video, we're going to use the Google Ads Keyword Planner to expand upon our initial seed keyword list. So the Google Ads Keyword Planner is a free tool that you can use to find additional new keywords, mostly short tails and long tails, that you can use for your campaign structure later on. So in this step, you should have already completed your seed keyword list, which you can which you can find in the keyword research template document and for the sake of this example we're only going to use the topic CRM. So for the topic CRM I've already come up with some examples some seed keyword list examples of keywords like affordable CRM or just the short CRM, CRM for agencies, CRM for real estate, mobile CRM, a CRM system, CRM tool, et cetera, et cetera. So these are just some examples that we are going to use as input for our Google ads keyword planner search. And then we want to extract all of the interesting and also irrelevant long tail keywords that Google ads will give us after the search. once we are done extracting all of these keywords we're going to create a really simple excel sheet with that just contains the short tails and the long tails without any metrics like search search volume competition metrics cpcs and stuff like that because afterwards we're going to first leverage the other tools like keyword tool.io and semrush as well to expand that list even further. Once we have a complete list per team, so for this example, that would be CRM, sales management, customer service, marketing automation, knowledge base, etc. We're then going to import these keywords back to the Google Ads Keyword Planner to extract all of the search metrics like monthly search volume, CPC levels, competition levels, and we're going to then use that list to use in the next step where we are going to group and map all of the keywords together so we can start to create creative themes for our ad groups and future campaigns. So let's first start with the input and we're going to use these seed keywords for the topic CRM. So after this lesson we want to head over to step number two create and we want to log all of the keyword metrics and the long tail keywords that we have discovered in this specific sheet but not not right now we're we are first going to use the keyword planner inside of your google ads account to extract all of the keyword ideas so you want to go to tools and then keyword planner and over here you want to go to discover new keywords you can select start with keywords and what you can do is basically copy paste up to 10 different keyword ideas so i'm just going to paste the first the first 10 to illustrate how this works you can filter out unrelated keywords by filling in your domain but i would not recommend doing this since google will filter out irrelevant keywords that could that could be that could be basically mapped or triggered by using your match types like broad match phrase match in the near future so you want to have these irrelevant keywords in your research as well so you can automatically exclude them from the start and we're going to do this in the next step so right now we want to hit find results and right now you can see that Google is basically giving us ideas and they found 531 keyword ideas for these geographic locations in combination with the language. So I'm going to add the USA since it will give me some more data. I'm going to remove the Netherlands. I'm also going to change the language to english instead of dutch and i want to i want google ads to look at the past 12 months from august 2022 until july 2023 so the metrics over here like the average monthly search volume are then based on these data frames so you want to be as close to to the you want to be as reasoned as possible over here so what you can see over here if you scroll down a bit you will see the metrics of the keywords you have provided so it will give you the metrics for the keywords you have you have input yourself but once you go down this is where the fun part starts you will see a keyword list sorted by keywords by relevance with the average monthly searches the monthly change, the year over year change, the competition levels, and also the expected CPCs for the top of the page and the absolute top of the page. So we want to look at the long tail keywords themselves only. We are not really interested in the average monthly searches of now. So what I want to do is basically just export this list and continue exporting this list for all of the seed keyword inputs you have you've brainstormed about in the first step of the first couple of videos we have touched on in this course so what you can do is basically export the keyword ideas over here and it will give you a csv file you can also export it in google sheets but i'm going to export this in csv so there we go then google ads will give you this document and basically where i am interested in right now is just the first column just the keyword column this one the other metrics and the segmented metrics by month in the selected date period i'm not really interested in right now we're going to look at those metrics after we have basically finalized our keyword list so what you want to do is to select all of these keyword ideas which are a lot 1730 keyword ideas already and you want to lock these keyword ideas inside of your simple data sheet per vertical, per theme, so to say. So I'm going to copy over the keywords inside of my working sheet, so to say, and I'm going to expand this list, this sheet with all of the possible interesting long tail keywords, but also synonyms and short tails from all of the tools at our disposal. And you want to do this for every single theme topic product category service so in my case that would be if i take a look at the seed keyword list for my in my case that would be crm sales management customer service marketing automation knowledge base cdp etc so basically you want to discover these teams as well once you're done with CRM and once you're done expanding this list with all of the possible interesting long tails then we're going to go back to the Google Ads Keyword Planner upload the list and then extract the volumes and take a closer look at the average monthly volume, CPCs, competition levels, etc. So this is basically how you use the Google Ads Keyword Planner for your keyword research process and basically to extract every single data point that Google has based on your initial seed keyword list input. So it is really important for your seed keyword list to be as complete and as detailed as possible. You don't want to include a hell of a lot of long tails in your seed keyword list because google ads will find long tails as well but you want to input at least two or three word combinations so you give google ads the google ads keyword planner enough input to work with so as you can see google ads was able to export 1730 keywords if i'm correct yeah 1730 keywords for just 10 crm related keywords i have basically used for an input so right now as you can see the import was limited to 10 keywords And my seed keyword list contains almost 30 seed keywords for this list. So what you can do is basically repeat this process for the remaining seed keywords in your seed keyword list as well. Then basically create exports, log them inside of your worksheet. And then once you're done, make sure to de-duplicate your keyword list, but you will have to de-duplicate this in the future lessons as well, since the paid tools like KeywordTool.io and SEMrush will also give you the same or somewhat the same long-term keyword ideas. So that's it for now. Make sure to extract as much value and as much information as possible. Strip out the search metrics for now. We're going to touch on these metrics later. So see you in the next video.
