# How to scrape your website using ScreamingFrog

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Dynamic targeting
- **Duration:** 04:15
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

So in this video, I want to show you how you can scrape a website using a tool like Screaming Frog. Basically, you can then use this list of all of the URLs to spit through in order to see if there are specific irrelevant URLs that you can then exclude inside of your DSA campaign or ad group. So let's dive in. So basically, you want to install the Screaming Frog SEO spider. That's how the program is called. I will make sure to put a link somewhere below this video. And then you want to insert your domain name. So let's say we want to scrape ppcmastery.com. This is unlicensed, so we can use this tool up to 500 unique URLs. If you buy a license, I think it is 100 euros per year or something like that. You can also use it for bigger websites. So if you're going to do this often, then I would suggest buying a fee. buying a license if you're going to do this once in a while then either see if you can scrape the website if it contains less than 500 unique pages if it contains more than 500 pages you can also search for a different tool that might be free or you can use a xml sitemap of the website itself so over here you see a little pop-up limited to 500 urls our website has less than 500 urls so we can still use the tool you can see the progress over here so it's almost done basically it's acting like a google spider and crawling every single link so now it is finished we can then filter on html and then we can basically sort from a to z and see all of the pages that have been discovered by Screaming Frog. You can quite easily create an export of this into an Excel workbook file that you can then work in. You can also copy over specific URLs that you see over here. So I'm just going to show you what Screaming Frog has discovered. We have a lot of blog pages, but as you can see over here, you're seeing some irrelevant pages already. So let's say we wanted to advertise on our domain and we wanted to advertise on, I don't know, our brand name or conversion tracking mastery course or a different product. And we decided to create some sort of a non-branded campaign around it. And we were to leverage DSA. Most obvious one would be to just target the specific product or course page, like the conversion tracking mastery using the URL contains function. But let's say we wanted to use a more broadly, a more broader URL targeting. For example, URL contains conversion tracking or all website pages. This is just an example. So if we were to do, we were to look for irrelevant URLs that might get triggered. Over here, we see a lot of irrelevant URLs, login, password, PPC hub, privacy policy, reviews terms and conditions contact community so basically you can select all of the irrelevant or possibly irrelevant pages create a copy save them in a excel sheet for later and then once you start to build out your dsa ad group or campaign you can then exclude these urls based on the url equals or the url contains function and that way you will prevent the system from showing ads on these types of pages if you decide to use a broad dynamic targeting option like all web pages url contains or whatever so that's it a very short video but i think it can be quite helpful in setting up your dsa campaign and it will prevent a lot of irrelevant spend so there you go
