# How to leverage Ad Customizers

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Creatives
- **Duration:** 11:36
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

So ad customizers are ideal for highly dynamic values as well. And this will make your ads really stand out and also really dynamic. So you can use ad customizers for variables like your lowest prices within a particular category or subcategory. You can use it for your stock levels for particular products categories as well. You can also use it for, well, other variables like time sensitive information, when a certain offer ends or whatever. everything can be made dynamic through ad customizers and I like to use it for e-com accounts mainly where I want to highlight the lowest price points or the stock levels like I mentioned already so in this short video I want I want to show you how you can set this up yourself it isn't really hard to set it up inside of google ads the hard part is to actually make a data source that you can rely on that is being updated daily or even more frequently that contains all of the up-to-date variables. So for this particular example, I want to highlight the prices within a particular subcategory that I basically update every single day based on my client's product feed. And this particular data source is then being fed into Google Ads. We are basically uploading ad customized attributes and those ad customized attributes have then been linked to the category-specific responsive search ads, resulting in well highly dynamic prices that obviously are up to date in order to make our ads stand out versus our competitors so over here you can see the the attributes that i'm using for this particular customer so basically i have named these attributes based on the category and or subcategory and you can see that these have been added to a wide range of different ads you can also see the account value and this is basically the price currently sent over to these particular attributes. So these values are then being shown inside of our responsive search ads in headlines and or description lines. So it's important to know that this is just an example for starting prices. The same concept applies for every single other variable out there. I'm not able to tell you how to set up your data source because it highly depends on your client's specific data sources how it how it looks like but also what kind of feed management tool you use maybe you don't even use a feed management tool you want to update this through zapier in combination with a google sheet it all works but there are so many possibilities over here that i cannot create a video for every single one of those methods so you might need to do a little bit of well digging yourself in order to find out what works for you, according to your tool set and also your data sources. So in this particular example, I am using Channable for this particular customer. We're using Channable for product feed optimization, but also for ad customizer creation like these. As you can see, I've created a lot of rules and these rules are once again, customer specific. So I'm not going to bore you with how these rules look like, because Well, they aren't going to be applicable to your unique case. You will have to come up with your own set of rules according to your data source. If you need help with that and you're using, for example, Channable as well, make sure to just reach out to Channable if you cannot figure it out. They have a great support desk that will think along with what you're trying to achieve. So the rule that is making sense is the lowest price rule. So I just want to quickly show you how this has been set up. So what we're doing over here is basically grouping all of the items within all of the labeled product types. So the underlying products have all got a specific product type assigned to them. Basically, we're going to group all of the underlying items within the first step. Then we're going to combine the price fields. Then we're going to basically sort the list, sort the prices within an ascending way. So cheapest price first, and then most expensive prices within that particular product type last. Then we're going to slice that particular list. And then we're only going to use the first price within those product type values, meaning we're getting the cheapest price per product type. So this is really technical. once again this is based on this particular customer this won't necessarily work for you it might but you will have to do some digging and some figuring out yourself in order to make this work so if you have created your lowest price rule the only thing that you have to do is basically map your internal fields which are going to be your product type fields in this particular case because i want my lowest price per product type obviously you want your lowest price which is going to be your account value the product type is going to be your attribute your add customize attribute and then you have one field which is going to be your data type most of the time this is going to be text so this is a static value but in order to map this to your final well final mapping step you need to create one as a project field and then just insert a static value so if you map all of these like so in this particular example you will end up with a well simple table a simple CSV file with these simple values. So over here, we've got all of our product types. Over here, you can see one static data type. So I like to work with text data types and then just include the pricing, the currency symbol to make it a price. You can also use a price data type, but I like to work with text, give me a little bit more flexibility. And then over here, you can see the lowest price per product type according to our rule. so you just want to make sure that you have one simple csv you want to make sure that that csv is being uploaded every single day so you have proper values doesn't matter if that is going to be your lowest price per product type if that is your stock level per product or per product type as long as it's updated every single day then you want to take this url and obviously you want to publish this particular feed in order to make this work and accessible then you want to copy this and you want to head over to your schedules within your schedules you want to create well a scheduled upload that basically uploads these ad attributes every single day and also syncs the updated price in this particular case so you in order to do that you need to go to tools and then bulk actions then uploads then you want to i'll give it a name so i'm naming this add customizers lowest price per product type over here you want to insert your csv file so this one is being hosted by channable updated daily you want to set the frequency to every 24 hours i'm going to sync it at 5 a.m after the channable add customizer feed has been created within channable based on actual prices within the web shop so make sure that this time is always after channel has created the file then you want to well say that you're uploading campaigns for whatever reason within a single account in the account that we are using right now you want to save that and then it's going to run every single day once it has been uploaded you will see that you're going to have add customized attributes within your business data so these are all the add attributes the add customized attributes that we've seen in the csv file that i just went over so you see the attribute you see the data type and you see the account value so these are the three columns that we need to upload and then well basically google is giving us the added to and the number of values columns that are not inside of your data file but they are using that to show you well to how many ads your attributes have been linked to for example and these values will then be updated every single day really solid and really handy so now we can continue to the next step and that is basically referring to these ad customized attributes within our ads so over here i have opened one particular ad where you can see the ad customizer in well in a live setting so this is obviously a dutch example because i mainly work for dutch clients so over here you can see the price of this particular sliding door system starting from 34 euros so a new sliding door systems starting from 34 euros and this particular price is being referred to the add customize attribute the same applies to the headline so if i go to the headline then you will see one particular headline order now starting from and then we have the add customizer over here that is referring to the product type add customizer and over here you can see that the price is being added automatically over here i didn't use a default value because the price always contains two or three characters in this particular case which is well within the character limit so i didn't have to care about that but then the price is being well synced with your ad customizer attribute every single time your ad is being pulled in for example you can do the same for your description lines so over here you can see that i'm using the same ad customizer within my description line new sliding door system starting from x euros lowest price within location insertion country the netherlands because i'm also targeting belgium so this makes me swap out the netherlands for belgium if people are from belgium indeed and you can see them still referring to this particular price over here as well within this particular attribute you can do this within a similar way for different categories different ad group themes you can also factor in different ad customizers like stock levels or whatever you want to make dynamic and it's really that easy the most challenging part is like i said the data source that you need to create you will have to figure out how that works for your particular stakeholder your particular customer if you cannot figure it out and make sure to head over to the support of the feed management tool that you're using or just ask chat gpt or whatever in order to make it work for your unique situation but once you've got it to work then it is really easy to implement things like you've just seen so this will give you a really highly dynamic ad that is different from your competitors it is also always up to date for example if one of these items are within a sale the price is also starting to become way more way more compelling because the lowest price including the sale price is then also being shown instead of my headlines and description lines And if competitors are also referring to the price within their ads and ours is more compelling, then well, that is going to result in a lot of clicks resulting in a way higher CTRs. So therefore I'm a really, I'm really a fan of utilizing ad customizers within my ads. And like I said, possibilities are endless.
