# How to extract realistic keyword metrics from Keyword Planner

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Keyword research
- **Duration:** 15:02
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

So now that we have finalized our hypothetical keyword analysis for the CRM keyword theme, we are ready to get some search metrics. So what we want to do right now, after we have completed the long-tail keyword research, we want to head over to Google Ads Keyword Planner and we want to copy and paste all of the keywords that we have discovered during the researching phase and the long-tail keyword research phase and we want to obtain metrics like the monthly search volumes the cpc levels and the competition levels so what we are going to do right now we're going to copy over the keywords that we have discovered which are about 4000 keywords and we're going to head over to google ads so what we want to do we want to head over to the keyword planner and we want to get search volume and forecasts over here you can copy and paste all of the keywords that you have discovered so there's no limit to this as far as i know these are about 4 000 keywords which are a lot during your keyword research i guess you will find way less long tail keywords this is just a very very very big vertical but it's great for an example and we are going to hit get started to get the search volume and create a forecast but we are particularly interested in these search volumes over here so the first thing that you want to do over here is to head over to your target location and select the country that you want to obtain the metrics for so for this exercise i just want to i just want the metrics for the usa but let's say you are creating a campaign for Germany, then you want to obviously only get the search volumes for the volumes in Germany. So make sure to select the appropriate country. You're not able to select a language since what Google says over here, historical metrics reflect searches for keywords regardless of the user's language setting. So it is not possible to select the language setting over here. But what is possible is to select the network and the date period. So I like to select the Google and search partner network. Some people like to only select Google, but I tend to start off my search campaigns with the search partners included. And this is because sometimes it's about 50-50. The search partner network definitely brings in additional conversions and additional effective traffic. so I want to know if there are any volumes in the search partner network network as well then we want to select the date period I tend to select the last 12 months and based on this period the averages and the competition levels and the CPCs are basically calculated so once we have selected and configurated all of these settings we can basically take a look at the search metrics like the average monthly searches the competition levels and the cpc levels so over here you can see all of the high volume keywords sorted from high to low in terms of average monthly searches and you can already see a lot of volumes coming in on short tails and also some irrelevant keywords like CRM stock, CRM, New York stock exchange. So plenty of people are using these kinds of irrelevant, for us, irrelevant searches. So it's good to be aware of this. And then once you have exported this list to create exclusions for them directly. So you don't waste any money when you enable your campaigns. So what we can do right now let's basically take a look at the amount of keywords that google has obtained search volumes for so we we inserted around four and a half thousand keywords so google was able to obtain metrics for close to three and a half thousand keywords so almost a thousand keywords are of low volume so these are automatically stripped out and right now we're ready to create an export of this sheet and then we can start implementing this in our keyword research template document with inside of google sheets you can head over to this little icon and then make sure to download the plan historical metrics section do not download the plan forecast setting otherwise google will create a forecast download for you and that's the wrong download you want to select this one you can either select a csv or a google sheet i like to just work with csvs and excel first and then use google sheets there we go so right now we have all of the important metrics downloaded at our disposal so at first we want to clean this up a little bit we want to delete the totals we want to delete in unnecessary columns so these two rows are unnecessary as well i don't need the currency i don't need the segments i do not need the monthly and year year on year changes what i do want is the competition level i'm just going to stock with the low medium high labels for now since i don't find it that important and i want the top of page bit and the top of page bit high range so i know what i can expect in terms of cpcs so and the last couple of columns are unnecessary as well so there we have it we're going to create a filter ctrl shift l real quick then we want to clean up this formatting since it ends with a dot zero i just want numbers over here i'm going to clean that up and now i want to sort this from high to low so there we have it so going to create euros for this real quick there we go okay and now we want to filter out the last couple of low volume keywords so this is a very very extensive keyword research most of the time my keyword research output is way way smaller since this is such a big vertical with such with so many long tails and synonyms So I'm just going to strip out all of the long tails that are, well, less than 100 searches per month, since I will not be able to include all of the long tails below the 100 average monthly searches in my campaigns. I already have more than 1700 keywords with a higher monthly search volume than 100 searches per month. So I'm just going to delete these ones. and I'm not saying you should do this for yourself I'm just saying that you need to look at the extensiveness of your output and the size the potential size of your your campaign structure and what you can do in terms of time resource available so for this client I only have this hypothetical client I only have 12 hours to complete my campaign structure and that means I have to cut off certain long tail volume keywords in order to to finalize my campaigns in time just a little thought process over there okie dokie so right now we can copy over copy and paste over these values and i'm not going to do that right now but i'm going to show you how this ends up inside of the document so over here we have our keyword research template we are now in the second worksheet create and this is where basically our keywords and search volume and cpcs are being logged so this is where you put the actual research the actual long tails that are filtered out with the with the metrics so i've already created a example as you can see over here so what i tend to start off with is my are my settings and filters so the location that i obtained the volumes and the metrics for is the usa language is basically all as we cannot we cannot decide the language as you saw in google the network we use this for was google and search partners and the search volume is higher than 100. Now I have copied and pasted over the keywords with the actual search volume competition index and the CPCs. For the competition index you can either choose to work with the labels so these ones low, medium or high but you can also work with the index. And the index was also part of the export. The index is a number ranging from zero to 100. And it gives you a little bit of more detail. It's up to you where you want to work with. So in this example, I imported the index number. It gives you a little bit more detail about the competition level, but it's still, you still have to take this with a big grain of salt. And then we have the CPCs low to high range. What you want to do if you are filling this document you want to categorize your keywords and link them to the top level seed keyword theme as you can see in the first step contextualize so over here all of these keywords that we have discovered and researched for are part of the category CRM and you want to log that category inside of this document as well and that helps you to filter out specific keywords later on when we are going to continue to the next step where we are actually going to group and map keywords together and that will be the very first start of the campaign structure basically once you have completed this document it looks like this i've already included some marketing automation and knowledge base keywords as well these are just this is just an example how it looks in the end and what i have already also done is i have already highlighted a couple of keywords where i've created a comment in the last cell where i can see what i'm going to do with this keyword in the next step for example the keyword crm that is really broad i've created a note for this is that it is maybe too broad with no clear intent it is also a very high volume keyword that is quite costly and since we do not have a clear intent over here i'm not sure as an advertiser if i want to start advertising on this key on this specific keyword same applies to customer relationship this is also a keyword that is questionable too broad with no clear intent what is a CRM system it is also a way it's way too informational or it could be too informational for your strategy so it might be interesting in a scaling and expanding a phase but not maybe in the initial phase where you're just starting out same applies to CRM stands for which is similar to the CRM meaning keyword it's also informational so what you want to do inside of your document already is you want to make annotations. You want to label keywords that are questionable that you may or may not want to include inside of your campaign structure. And you also want to highlight completely irrelevant keywords like CRM agency. So this is performed from the perspective of HubSpot. I'm just going to pretend I am HubSpot as a advertiser. And if people are searching for a agency, that's not what we do. We do not do implementations, so this is completely irrelevant. And we might want to exclude agency in broad match right from the start. And you want to do the same for the other keywords as well. For example, marketing automation services. They are looking for an agency and not a tool or a Sage knowledge base. Sage is a competitor instead of looking for us or just the tool in general. So this is a navigational intent term where people are explicitly looking for a competitor. So this might be interesting for a competitor campaign, for example, but you have to create annotations already to start thinking about your Google Ads search strategy already. So this is the very first phase of your search strategy and your search tactics, and it will all come together in the next few steps. in the next few lessons so there we have it make sure to to be as complete as possible but be be realistic as well so if you have 5 000 keywords like the crm keywords i had in this specific example but you only have 500 euros per month to spend do not create a really extensive keyword research like this be very particular be precise use higher search volume thresholds and only start with the most important keywords if you are low on time but if you have the resources if you want to do this close to perfect then be as complete and detailed as possible because the more keywords you are able to research for the better your eventual campaign strategy campaign tactics and campaign structure will be, and the better your negative keyword list will be from the start as well. So let's continue to the next lesson. Hopefully see you there.
