# About Dynamic Targeting and Dynamic Search Ads

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Dynamic targeting
- **Duration:** 12:25
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

Welcome to the first lesson about dynamic targeting in this new module. So in this lesson, you will learn more about dynamic targeting and DSA and what the core benefits and best practices of DSA are. So let's dive in and let's discuss some basics first. Dynamic search ads uses your website content to target your ads. And basically, the dynamic search ad headlines are created dynamically using the metadata of your website which keeps your ads relevant hopefully of all times and saves you a bunch of time so by pairing dynamic ad groups dynamic targeting slash dsa with your keyword-based ad groups you can easily fill in the gaps and maximize your search engine result page exposure and dynamic search ads are particularly effective for large websites with lots of product pages or regular pages if it's informational but we like to use it in almost all of our accounts even the smaller ones to plug in the holes and increase our exposure. So let's continue to the benefits of using dynamic search ads DSAs. The first main benefit is that it saves you a lot of time because setting up dynamic targets and dynamic search ads takes really low effort. The only thing that you have to do is basically to create a dynamic ad group, basically target the pages based on the Google index. So the pages that Google know you have and or based on specific page feeds where you basically insert page URLs and you pair them with custom labels and you tell Google Ads, what kind of labeled page URLs to use. So it is quite simple to set up and also quite simple to automate within your regular campaign structure. Number two is that it shows extremely relevant ads when done right. So Google Ads will dynamically generate ads with clear headlines based on the metadata of your page and generally the pages that you target contain relevant content already since often when you take online marketing seriously your pages are optimized for organic and zero already and google is using that information to craft the dynamic ad so the headlines are dynamically created the description lines are not and you have to to add and create the description lines yourself the rest is being done by google automatically and we will zoom in on that part in a few more slides number three is it captures additional traffic and fills in the gaps so dynamic search ads basically help you to plug holes in your keyword targeting so let's say you're running phrase match exact match and you haven't implemented broad match at all or haven't implemented broad match appropriately then by using dsa or dynamic targeting you can plug the holes and basically expand beyond the queries that are related to your keyword keyword based targeting so it increases your exposure and therefore almost always increases your conversion volume and last but not least it enables you to steer your ads you can easily show ads based on your entire website or very specific pages so dynamic search ads even though it is highly automated you are still behind the wheel and you can still tell google what kind of pages to target and where to craft dynamically created ads for all right let's start off with some best practices. Dynamic search ads are not recommended if your website changes frequently. And this is because you are highly dependent of Google's crawlers. Even if you are using a page feed, for example, you're still dependent on the crawlers of Google to approve these pages so if you are creating ads for a specific deal website where every four hours a new deal is being pushed or maybe even more frequent then your dsa targeting isn't possible to keep up with the dynamically changing content of your website and therefore will not create relevant ads and will not serve on the correct queries so only use dsa if your landing pages are somewhat static and constant dynamic search ads work best for website with highly optimized html page titles and page content your metadata and for pages where google can easily identify themes and terms. So make sure that if you leverage DSA that you are targeting pages that are highly structured because DSA basically creates your ad based on these pages and also triggers that specific ad on queries that match the theme and the terms of your page. It is dynamic after all. So if you are unclear about what you are offering and Google is having a hard time about what kind of searches could be relevant for that page, then DSA will not be that effective. But on the other side, if you have a highly structured product page, category page, service page with lots of interesting content, and it can be mainly text-based content, where you have incorporated a lot of high volume keywords already based on a SEO research, keyword research that you have done, then DSA will be highly effective. Dynamic search ad does not work well with websites that are in a format that Google crawlers cannot properly read. For example, there are still a lot of websites on the internet that mainly use images or are even still based on an outdated framework like flash google scrollers aren't able to extract the information if you do not use a lot of text and if the crawler cannot properly obtain the text page based content from your page so keep that in mind before you start using dsa and lastly keep your relevancy in check by frequently checking your search term report and by excluding irrelevant or poor performing pages what a lot of advertisers do or tend to do they tend to leverage dynamic search ads dynamic targeting by just targeting the complete website but oftentimes this will also trigger irrelevant informational pages like the about us the contact page or maybe irrelevant non-conversion focused informational pages like specific blog pages. I'm not saying to exclude blog pages at all, but you might want to check in on these pages if they are appropriately formatted with a focus on conversion. If not, make sure to exclude these kinds of pages because otherwise they will drain budget, they will drain volume, and it will cost you a lot of money. let's talk about how dsa's are ranked and favored so the ad ranking of dynamic search ads are determined in the same way as your keyword based ads and it's calculated using your bid amount your auction time ad quality so the ad quality when you enter the auction your ad rank thresholds the context of your search query and the expected impact of assets and other formats that you have included as well. And these are the extensions that you have also linked to the ad group campaign or whatever. So if your dynamic ad targets and keywords are eligible to serve a search query, the keywords will serve instead. And this applies to exact match keywords, including identical terms, misspelled words, or plural forms. So if you want to read that again, be my guest. It is quite complicated, but generally, if both of your DSA targets and your exact match keywords can enter the same auction, then the exact match keyword is being favored by the system. Google ads might favor your DSA ad instead of your keyword-based ad when a search term is a broad match or a phrase match to one of your keywords and when your DSA has a higher ad rank. So if you're running full broad match already, or you're not having a lot of exact match keywords in place, then chances are high or higher that your DSA ad will get prioritized by Google if it has a higher ad rank. If not, and if your keyword has a higher ad rank when using broad match or phrase match, then the keyword is still being favored. if two dynamic ad targets are eligible to serve a search query in the same campaign dsa will serve the landing page that is most relevant to the query so let's say you have created a two two dsa ads and you are targeting two blog pages where the one one blog page is written towards the generic team and where the other is written towards a long tail keyword and a search query is coming in that is quite generic then basically google is looking at both of the relevant landing pages and basically looks at the one that is most relevant to the query and where ad has the highest ad rank so did you know there is no way to find an estimated quality score for dynamic search ad targets however ad rank calculations for dynamic search ads work exactly the same as regular search ads do. This is a very important point because oftentimes DSA might have a higher ad rank than your keyword-based ads even if you follow all the best practices and you have written really closely themed creative themes and responsive search ads then your dynamically created ads, your DSA ad might still have a higher ad rank. And that is why I do not prefer to exclude all of my keywords inside of my DSA ad group or DSA campaign, because you're shooting yourself in the foot if Google finds out that your DSA ad has a higher ad rank. So that might result in a higher a higher position in the ad auction it might result in a lower cpc so why would you want to exclude your keywords from your dsa ads in essence so that's what i do not like and that's what i generally do not do there are of course some some exemptions on this rule as well but i do not want to go in depth on that right now hopefully you found you found this lesson insightful in the next few lessons we will zoom in on how you can further leverage dsa how you can create the best dynamically created ad possible by using great input great targeted pages and we will also zoom in on how you can leverage the page feeds function within the dsa targeting function. Let's continue with the next lesson and hopefully see you there. Ciao.
