# How to use Semrush

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** search-mastery
- **Section:** Keyword research
- **Duration:** 08:54
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

So the last tool we're going to dive into is SEMrush. And SEMrush is really, really powerful in my opinion. If you combine this with the Google Ads keyword tool and the keyword tool.io keyword research tool, then you're basically unstoppable. SEMrush is mainly used by SEOers, but it can be used by PPCers like us as well. And you have multiple features inside of SEMrush. You can either do some advertising research where you can also look at competitors ad strategies see take a closer look at their ads take a closer look at the keywords they're bidding on you can also do some plain old keyword strategy and keyword analysis what you want to do is you want to head over to advertising and you want to head over to the keyword magic tool and the keyword magic tool basically is relevant to use for both seo and ppc purposes so if you want to do seo strategies or some keyword research for for google ads and you can use this tool for both purposes so i want to do some additional research for the term crm in the us and by doing so i want to hit search so this is where it gets interesting So over here, you see a lot of data. And right now, I'm just interested in the long tails. So I'm just going to show you around how I use this tool, but I'm going to show you around in the tool and the features that you can use for yourself as well. One of the things that I find really helpful and interesting is the intent that SEMrush is using for every single keyword. So you can filter out specific keywords with a specific intent. So let's say you are looking for transactional keywords because you are running on a low budget or you have a very high aggressive target to hit, then you can filter out all of the transactional keywords and then export them to your keyword research document. So you can also do this for the other intents. and if you create a export it will also auto label the potential intent behind the keyword for every single keyword you can also take a closer look at questions for example so this is real interesting as well so over here you see the monthly volume in the us for crm related questions what is CRM, what does CRM stand for, what is Salesforce CRM, what does CRM mean, what is CRM in marketing, is MailChimp a CRM, what does CRM stand for in marketing, what is PyBref CRM. So these are all possible interesting queries for your informational intent strategy as well. So you can take a closer look at the questions inside of SEMrush as well, but you can also just select all and then have all of the keywords including the questions you can also sort by volume and over here you see that SEMrush is automatically clustering certain keywords together and this really helps if you are clustering and grouping your keywords together in this step already I do not like to do that in this step already but I know some PPCers do and SEMrush helps you clustering your keywords already. So you will see that Zoho-related CRM keywords have a total amount of monthly searches of 93,000 searches per month and you can even filter out or segment out even further per Ngram, so to say. So that's really interesting as well to take a closer look at. but we are once again going to look at just the terms because we want to expand our long tail keywords list in our worksheet besides keyword tool.io and google ads keyword planner so what we want to do we want to select all of these keywords copy all and we want to basically export these to excel and this is where semrush also gives you a nice excel sheet there you go and you will see some familiar keywords in here already that we have seen in other tools like crm monday crm stock that is irrelevant stock price also irrelevant so you see that semrush is also pushing somewhat the same keywords but way more than the keywords that keyword tool.io and google ads keyword planner basically gave us so they basically pushed 10 000 different queries and that is just insane there's so much data in this tool so what i'm going to do i'm going to filter out low volume queries so i want to range from 50 monthly search and higher because otherwise the list will just become too long so right now you will see that i think yeah they still have 3 000 terms which are a lot really really really a lot it's going to be a big keyword research document it's just for the sake of illustration but it's such a high volume vertical and i think it's helpful to just show you how i do this and then we can still de-duplicate the list so there we go the last one is irrelevant has some arabic in it oops i'm going to go to my master sheet first all the way to the bottom and i'm going to copy paste the semrush keywords in here once again so now we have more than 5 000 keywords in here with a lot of duplicates since we just copy pasted every single thing that the google ads keyword planner keyword tool.io and samrush basically gave us so i'm going to close these tabs down so once you are done and once again this is a really short version of what you can actually do and research within samrush you can also fill in long tails like CRM tools, CRM software, CRM for small businesses and have long tails for these keywords once again. So this is just a really short version of what you can actually accomplish, but you will get the deal. So what we're going to do now is to de-duplicate the column. So we want to de-duplicate all of the values in the column CRM. And as you can see, they found close to 1100 double values so we are left with 4477 unique values so that's awesome so what we can do now once we are done you can see that we have also got a lot of mass inside of here that we will filter out as soon as we start extracting the volumes inside of google ads but what we're going to do next is basically upload this list to the google ads keyword planner and see the actual monthly volumes in combination with the cpc's competition levels and what's or not so over here you see a lot of interesting queries accounting firms advertising agencies agencies agents auto dealerships b2b sas b2b small business consultants construction this is so golden there's so much hidden gold in here that you can already apply in your future campaign structure and your search strategy so this is just so good so in the next video we are going to obtain the volumes for these keywords so let's finish this lesson and continue to the google ads keyword planner
