# Understanding Google Ads budgets

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** bids-budgets-mastery
- **Section:** Determining budgets
- **Duration:** 17:12
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

In this lesson, we're going to discuss budget basics. So in this lesson, you're going to learn the key concept of Google Ads budgeting, the differences between individual budgets and shared budgets, and when to choose shared budgets versus individual budgets. So let's talk budgets over here. There are three budget concepts you need to be aware of. The first one is your average daily budget. And this is the average amount you're willing to spend per day for every single campaign that you have, well, a budget for essentially. you can set and edit your average daily budget at any time for as low as well one dollar per day so to say up to multiple tens of thousands of euros per day it's completely flexible and it's up to you what you would like to set as a maximum then you have your second budget concept and this is a very important one to understand and this is your daily spending limit and this is the maximum amount you can spend for a campaign on any given day in a month google can spend up to twice your average daily budget if it feels that it can maximize your performance that way so we're going to dive deeper into that concept in a bit and lastly we have the monthly spending limit and this is the maximum amount you can be billed for for one particular campaign over one particular month and this is basically calculated as your average daily budget that you've set on a campaign level or within a shared budget multiplied by the number of days within that month on average that is a 30.4x so let's say your average daily budget is 100 euro and you have 30 days inside of one given month that means that you will have a spending limit of well 30 times 100 leading to 3000 euros so to say so let's dive in further so over here you can see some average daily budgets well known you can set your average daily budget on the campaign level over here you can see individual campaign budgets. You can see some of them are being limited by the budget. Some of them aren't. You can also see the daily budget spend limit and the actual spend, which are custom columns that help me to better understand the budget pacing and if I need to adjust budgets at any given time. Over here, you can see the daily spending limit. So over here, I've segmented one particular campaign per day the average daily budget over here is 1000 euros per day but you can see that the average spend per day is fluctuating a lot and sometimes google is even spending more than your maximum daily budget and that is why they can spend up to times two your daily budget and they do that in order to well maximize your results it's not because they want to well fill their pockets. Obviously, it's also better for them if they are able to spend your money, but they're also spending your money when they think it's going to be beneficial for you in order to hit your goals. So don't be scared if you see your spend going times two, your average daily budget, but make sure to also educate your stakeholders on this because sometimes your stakeholders are like, what the hell? We spent twice as much as our average daily budget yesterday. What happened? so you need to make sure that they also know about this concept of the daily spending limit so this is basically how it works over here you have an x-axis with the number of days over here you have a y-axis with your spend let's say your daily budget is set to 20 euros or 20 dollars in this particular example that means that your daily spending limit is set to 40 dollars and basically this is what can happen where google can underspend but sometimes also overspend towards that 40 dollars daily spending limit in order to well maximize your results but they will never pay more than well the the daily budget that you have set and the monthly spend limit that you have also well therefore calculated so you can head over to your budget reports as well in order to see your monthly spending limits on the campaign level if you're working with individual budgets but also on the shared budget level over there you can see well your average daily budget 30 times 300 euros per day over here equals 9k so that is your monthly spending limit and they can also give you a forecast what they expect you to well spend for this particular period of time and you can also see the cost per date so this is quite an interesting budget pacing report that you can use in order to properly understand your budget pacing and whatnot it's not perfect therefore i like to rely on the custom columns like i have showed you in this particular slide because this actually tells you the percent budget spent within your date range and also your actual spend you can compare this versus your daily budget in order to see if you're stretching your daily budget. And you can combine these metrics with your loss impression share due to limited budgets. I will make sure to link the custom column calculations below this video, and also the column loss impression share due to limited budget that you can use in order to see if you're running against your budget, so to say, and if you potentially need to increase it if your performance is good. So from here, it's important to understand that there are two types of different budgets you can choose from the first type of budget is your individual campaign budget where you can allocate a specific daily budget for every single individual campaign and then you have your shared budgets where you can allocate a daily budget across multiple linked campaigns to simplify budget management so over there you have one pooled budget so to say you're linking one or multiple campaigns and then budgets being shared among those campaigns to get the most to get the best performance possible so to say there's one exception to the rule for video campaigns only because for video campaigns you have campaign total budgets where you can use a campaign total budget to allocate a total budget for the duration of your video campaign if it has like one start date and an end date so that's a exception to the rule but generally speaking we only have two types of budgets listed over here so when do you choose individual campaign budgets and shared budgets and what are the pros and the cons. So let's dive in. So individual campaign budgets are basically used if you want to set a specific daily budget for every single individual campaign. And this offers a very precise control over how much you're willing to spend on one particular campaign only. So this is really controllable in a way that you can limit the budget allocation yourself based on whatever your reasoning is behind that. The pro of this is that it gives you full control it allows you to allocate budgets based on campaign priorities and goals so let's say you are offering two types of services maybe seo and seo services but your but your seo team needs a couple of more gigs so to say well in that case you might want to allocate more budget towards your seo seo campaign in order to bring in more leads where your seo campaign well can be lowered so in that case you can easily switch budgets therefore it allows for a lot of flexibility because each campaign's budget can be fine-tuned to meet campaign specific goals well refer to the example that i just mentioned and also in terms of optimization it is perfect for optimizing and scaling specific campaigns if you feel the need to so let's say one particular campaign that is performing really well runs towards your well average daily budget spend cap so to say well And in that case, you can easily increase the budget to increase spend limits for that particular campaign only without, well, scaling other campaigns that might be running less effectively, so to say. But there are also cons for this particular budget. Management is one of them. It requires constant monitoring and also adjustments for one or multiple campaigns. If you're using individual campaign budgets, budgets may be left underutilized or sometimes even overfunded if your performance isn't that great when incorrectly managed so let's say you're well basically overlooking your daily budgets for a week or so it might backfire if you do not monitor sharply and it can also lead to inefficiencies because unspent budget from one campaign for example let's say your daily budget is 250 euros over there but your average daily spend is 100 euro well that daily budget might have been reallocated to your better performer campaigns that is running towards your limited budget status in order to optimize results so to say so then we have shared budgets where a single daily budget is being shared across multiple linked campaigns this simplifies budget management a lot by pooling your budgets across multiple campaigns pros are time saving where it reduces the effort of setting and monitoring budgets for individual campaigns instead distribution is a pro where google redistributes the budget the shared budget to campaigns with the most opportunity so to say so you're giving google control where it needs to allocate budget in order to maximize your results and it is also really simple where it is an ideal budget type when campaigns have similar targets and goals where you don't really need to budget in a different way. So in those cases, you can also simplify budget management by using a shared budget, so to say. There are cons, which are essentially the opposite of the pros of individual budgets, so to say. The cons over here is that it gives you limited control because Google controls the spending limit and the spending levels per campaign, and you do not really have a control over, well, what campaign is getting what budget and why. It can also lead to over and underfunding within particular campaigns that you didn't really want to prioritize. So sometimes if this is managed incorrectly, you might see one particular campaign utilizing all of your shared budget allocation, whereas other campaigns are, well, not getting any budget at all, where they're basically getting underfunded, so to say. so that is a big con as well and dependency because it requires trust in google's algorithms to allocate your budgets effectively generally speaking they do a great job but it doesn't go well every single time so you need to be also monitoring your budget allocation among your linked campaigns if you're going to utilize a shared budget so over here you can see a shared budget in action where the shared budget is 500 euros over here 500 euros per day it is being linked to four campaigns therefore google is showing an average daily spend or daily spending limit or basically daily budget i have to say of 125 euros times four equals 500 euros and then google basically is using that pooled budget that 500 euros to to share among these four linked campaigns so to say so when do you choose shared budgets over individual budgets and vice versa so you want to choose shared budgets when campaigns share the same or very similar objectives where you want to save time managing multiple campaigns with minimal oversight so if you want to let go of budget management and your campaigns share similar objectives, then, well, you can let go of it and give Google the power in order to distribute and allocate your budgets accordingly. It is also powerful for campaigns in the initial learning phase, where they might need a lot of room to test performance without having fixed budgets. So a lot of times when I launch new campaigns, and I'm not yet sure about the budget allocation per campaign, I utilize one shared budget and I pull it across the campaigns and I just gather a lot of data. And then afterwards, I might want to switch to individual budgets, but in the first phases, a shared budget might be a little bit more easy. And lastly, if your goal is to maximize overall ROI across multiple campaigns without focusing on very specific ones. In that case, you can also use a shared budget and you can even combine it with a portfolio bid strategy where you're also going to combine one bid strategy with one target, with one pooled shared budget among multiple campaigns. In that case, you're giving Google the power, Google the flexibility in order to maximize your performance across multiple campaigns without having to do all of the budget management. But you have to be aware that you need to meet certain, well, thresholds for that, certain requirements. That's the correct word that I was looking for. So you want to always be aware that shared budgets aren't suitable when running frequent campaign experiments due to compatibility issues. So if you're utilizing campaign experiments, a lot of the times you cannot run a campaign experiment within a shared budget pool. So in those cases, you need individual budgets. So if you're running a lot of frequent campaign experiments a shared budget might not be the the choice for you so when do you choose individual budgets then well if your campaigns have different objectives and you want to budget accordingly so let's say well that seo versus seo services example once again if i really want to steer lead volume sales volume visibility for one particular category or search team or whatever then well individual budgets make sense because you're the one in control if you're giving google the power with a shared budget you cannot tell google that seo might be more important to you in terms of budget allocation than seo so in those instances individual budget makes more sense also when you need tight control overspent for example for high priority campaigns or when utilizing advanced tactics you might want to have tighter budget control for example utilizing a performance-based bucketing structure within standard shopping or PMAX. Well, in those case, you want to maximize costs within your villain's bucket, so to say, because those are your costly products. Well, in those instances, working with a shared budget doesn't work at all because you're going to miss the point of the performance-based bucketing structure. So that might be a solid reason. Some campaigns are critical for certain business outcomes and cannot risk underfunding. So if you want to hit specific volumes or specific visibility levels, like brand campaigns, for example, you do not want to run shared budgets for those campaigns as well, because it might risk to underfunding when your budget is being limited. So be aware of that. And if you're running time-sensitive campaigns that require specific spend to achieve specific goals, like Black Friday campaigns or different time-sensitive seasonality campaigns, for example then individual budgets make sense as well so in the next couple of lessons we're going to dive deeper into how determine your budget so these are just the budget concepts that you need to be aware of in the next couple of lessons i'm going to show you the how and also the calculations so key takeaways in this lesson are that you have an average daily budget that basically tells you your daily spent target per campaign then you have your daily spending limit which is times two your daily budget that you have inserted on the campaign level. Then you have your monthly limit, which is your spend kept at 30.4x your daily budget every single month on average. And this is what Google can maximum charge you based on your average daily budget, so to say. So they will never spend more than your monthly limit, so to say. Then you have two types of budgets, individual budgets, shared budgets. Individual budgets give you precise control for optimizing specific campaigns they give you full flexibility shared budgets simplifies management across multiple campaigns with similar goals where it doesn't really matter if some campaigns are getting overfunded or underfunded so to say you want to choose for a shared budget for similar objectives for within an initial learning phase or when you're aiming for simplicity where you want to limit management in terms of budget management for example but you want to choose for individual budgets for well campaigns with distinct objectives where you want to prioritize specific campaigns where you want to leverage advanced tactics like the performance-based structure etc so these are the key take let's continue with the next lesson where i'm going to introduce our budgeting framework in order to allocate budgets to hit your goals Thanks for watching.
