# Recap: Why setting goals is crucial

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** bids-budgets-mastery
- **Section:** Fundamentals
- **Duration:** 04:23
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

So before we start executing, I quickly want to recap on the goals and KPIs module, because it is really important that at this very moment, you know what your client is looking for. What is the business goal you're trying to achieve? How does the translated business goal to your Google Ads goals look like? What do you need to achieve? Is the primary focus on growth? Is the primary focus on efficiency? What are your primary and secondary KPIs? if you simply do not know at this stage you're going to have a hard time selecting the right strategy calculating the right targets and also determining your budgets so make sure to to recap on the goals and kpis first determine your goals and then execution will be a lot easier so setting clear goals is crucial for choosing the right bit strategy and that is because you have to execute based on your business goals and your translated Google Ads goals. So essentially, I quickly want to recap on the Google Ads goal setting pyramid over here because it makes sense in the grand scheme of things. So you always want to start with the business goal of your particular stakeholder, whether that is your client, whether that is the business that you work for, whether that is your team lead that is determining the targets. You want to know and you want to check in on the business goals. What is it that they want to achieve? growth efficiency okay and then what in terms of volumes in terms of efficiency targets so you need to ask the right questions in order to make sure that you know what they're trying to achieve you need translated google ads goal because google ads goals is only a small piece of the very big puzzle so let's say you're also driving other channels like seo email marketing social next to google ads well that means that google ads is only a tiny piece of the puzzle and you need to basically calculate how google ads needs to be a part of of basically hitting the overarching business goals so that's what you're going to do in that step then you're going to select the right campaign types in order to hit your google ads goals over here you're going to select the right primary KPIs and secondary KPIs. Primary KPIs are tied to your primary goal. So let's say your primary goal is growth focused, then your primary KPIs might be KPIs like conversions, conversion value, maybe even profit. Whereas your secondary KPIs are your guardrail KPIs that basically prevent underspending and overspending. So let's say your primary KPI primary goal is growth, then your secondary KPI should be efficiency. For example, target ROAS, target POAS, target CPA, enable to not fly out of the corner, so to say. And then once you know all of that, you can start to execute because by this point, you know the targets that you're looking for, you know your growth targets, you know your efficiency targets, that makes setting efficiencies, target CPAs, target ROASs, et cetera, way easier in this particular stage. And since you also know about the growth targets, you know also how to translate that growth target back to your monthly needed budget and therefore also your daily budget in order to achieve those growth goals. So based on those goals, you're going to make your life way, way, way easier. promise me because I didn't do it this way in my early stages of my career and I had a really hard time especially when setting up new campaigns determining budgets determining targets because I was simply guessing at that point since I didn't know the right questions to ask I didn't know the business goals what my clients were aiming to achieve I didn't know how Google Ads looked into the greater scheme of things so if you do this right you're going to make your life a little bit easier well a lot easier and you're going to drive actual results that make sure that you're hitting your google ads goals and therefore hopefully also make sure to hit your business goals so without further ado let's let's execute and let's start diving into the bits and budgets content so hopefully see you in the next lesson
