# Understand your minimal viable budget

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** bids-budgets-mastery
- **Section:** Determining budgets
- **Duration:** 14:59
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

In the second step of the framework, you're going to calculate your minimum viable budget needed in order to hit your growth goals. So in this lesson, you will learn why minimum viable budgets matter, how to calculate your minimum viable budgets per business model, Legion, SaaS, Ecom, which method fits in your situation, and when to adjust your calculations. So over here, you can see the framework. Right now, we are in step number two, where you're going to be understanding your minimum viable budget. where you can use certain basic formulas utilizing your growth target and your efficiency target in order to come up with the proper budgets needed in order to hit your goals. So your growth target determines your minimum viable budget and it has to support your overarching Google Ads goal. It then sets a minimum baseline spend level in order to hit your growth targets and obviously in order to calculate your minimum viable budget you're going to need proper calculations. So why a minimum viable budget and why not a budget? Well, your minimum viable budget is your starting point for success. You will have enough budget to achieve your volume targets. You will have enough room for optimization. You will have enough room for testing and you have a proper baseline when you want to scale. So if you have a too little budget, you will risk to underspend where you will have a lot of unkept potential but if you have too much budget you might risk to overspend and that could lead to inefficiencies. So therefore I call this the minimum viable budget in order to hit your growth goals. Could be more but based on the proper calculations you're able to have enough room for well all of these areas to achieve your volume targets, leave some room for optimization and testing and also have a proper baseline for further scaling. So let's do some simple math over here. I would like to start with Legion as an example. Then we're going to touch on SaaS. And then we're going to touch on e-comm as well. I'm going to be giving two to three examples of every single vertical. And I've also prepared a calculation sheet for you that you can use in order to calculate your budget needed in order for based on certain examples, because you will have to work with the KPIs that you have based on the growth and the efficiency goals that you set. And based on those different KPIs, your calculations need to be slightly different. So therefore, I've created a calculation sheet that makes your life a little bit easier, I hope. So let's start with lead generation metrics. So let's say your primary KPI in your growth and efficient goal is leads. So your growth goal might be a target lead volume and your efficiency might be a target cost per lead, a CPL. So it's really easy to calculate your budget over here. it is target leads times your target cpl so for example if you want to aim for 100 leads in a given time period then you want to multiply that by your target cpl in this case 50 euros and that will lead to 5 000 euros needed in order to hit your growth goals but let's say your primary kpi is not leads but qualified leads well in that case you need to make sure that your growth and efficiency goals are well qualified lead related for example target qualified lead volume target qualified cost per lead cpql well calculating this is just the same as in the previous example target qualified leads times target cost per qualified lead instead of just raw leads so let's say you want to aim for 50 qualified leads and your efficiency target is 200 euros cost per qualified lead well make the calculation and then that will end up with 10k in budget needed in order to hit your number of qualified leads within your official target last example let's say your primary kpi is closed deals where your growth target is target closed deal volume and your target is target customer acquisition costs related in that case similar calculation target close deals times your target CAC, your customer acquisition cost. Let's say you want to aim for 10 close deals within a given time period for 750 customer acquisition costs. Well, that will lead to a budget needed of 7,500 euros. Really easy to do essentially. So let's continue with e-commerce. So let's say your primary KPI within your e-commerce goals are revenue. Let's say your growth target is a particular revenue target and your efficiency target is a target ROAS revenue based in that case your budget calculation is relatively simple you basically have your revenue target and you divide that by your target ROAS percentage for example if you aim for 100k in terms of revenue as a growth target within a given time period for example per month for a particular efficiency target let's say your efficiency target is going to be 400 well then do the calculations do the math and you will end up with a 25k in budget needed in order to hit your revenue target for a well four to one ROAS a 4x ROAS 400 ROAS depending how you would like to look at things real easy to understand let's say you are trying to aim for transactions instead of revenue well that is similar to your legion calculation where your growth target might be a transaction related target for example target transactions and your fishy target might be a specific target cost per sale a cps in that case you want to well multiply your transactions by the target cost per sale for example if you want to aim for 500 transactions in a given time period you multiply that by your cost per sale target for example 40 euros that will lead to a budget needed of 20k simple math last example where your primary kpi is new customers so let's say your growth target is aiming for a particular number of new customers within a particular customer acquisition cost as an efficient target well budget calculation is relatively simple to understand again where you want to multiply your new customers target times your target customer acquisition cost so let's say you're aiming for 200 new customers within a given time period for a customer acquisition cost of maximum 80 euros well 200 times 80 equals 16k in budget needed in order to hit your growth targets for this particular efficiency really easy then we have some SaaS examples. SaaS is relatively, it's a little bit more complicated due to the nature of the KPIs. So bear with me. So let's say you are aiming for a particular lifetime value to customer acquisition cost ratio, also known as the LTV to CAC ratio, which is relatively popular metric to optimize for as an efficiency target within SaaS. Well, let's say that is your core KPI in terms of efficiency and your growth target is going to be new customers so let's say your growth target is new customers and your efficiency is going to be your LTV to CAC ratio well then you need to do some calculations in order to well come to a proper efficiency target and to also calculate your budget needed at first you need to understand your LTV so you need to calculate your LTV by looking at the average revenue per user, also known as your ARPU. You want to combine that with the customer lifetime. So how long is your customer going to be a customer? So let's say your average revenue per user is 10 euros and your customer lifetime is 10 months. Then your LTV is going to be 100 euros. Then you want to find your target CAC, your target customer acquisition cost. And that is basically done by looking at your LTV divided by the LTV to CAC ratio you're optimizing for. Generally speaking, a LTV to CAC ratio of three to one is the best practice in this particular industry, but it varies a lot per SaaS company, obviously, and the targets you're aiming for. And then once you know the target CAC, you can then calculate the budget needed because now you have your new customer's target. And you can combine that by the target CAC based on your L and your LTV to CAC ratio. So here's an additional step you need to do in order to come up with the proper budget calculation. So this is what I mean that things can become a little bit more complicated depending on the KPIs that you're using. But in order to help you out, I've made a sheet that I will share later. So let's look at an example. So let's say we have an average order value, sorry, an average revenue per user an ARPU of 100 euros and the lifetime is 24 months will that result in a lifetime value of 2400 euros then in the next step you want to find your target CAC where you want to divide your your LTV by your LTV to CAC ratio so let's say you're aiming for a 3 to 1 LTV to CAC ratio then your target CAC is going to be 800 euros because you can maximum spend 800 euros within the customer lifetime value of 2400 euros leaving room for profit and having this particular CAC results in being able to make the calculation so if you're aiming for 50 new customers within a particular time period times that 800 euros in CAC you will then have your budget that equals 40k in budget so this is a little bit more complicated but still doable then we have a second SaaS example where your KPI might be a payback period which is also relatively popular to to have at least from my personal experience so let's say you have a growth target where you want to aim for a particular MRR a monthly recurring revenue target where you also need the average MRR per customer the average monthly revenue recurring revenue per customer that you have and where your efficiency target is going to be your payback period so in what time period can you pay back the customer acquisition cost so to say so in order to make this proper calculation you need to first find your target customer acquisition cost and you can do that by multiplying your efforts efforts revenue per user times your payback period and then once you have your your target CAC over here, you can then calculate your budget needed by combining the new customer's target times the target CAC. So let's say your ARPU is 50 euros and your payback period is 12 months. So you want to pay back the acquisition cost in 12 months, so to say, that equals 600 euros. So if you're aiming for 100 new customers and your payback, or sorry, your CAC is 600 euros, then that will lead to 60k in budget needed in order to well hit your growth volume so to say so as you can see all roads lead to roam but you need to know your numbers so it doesn't really matter what kpis you're using as long as you understand what kpis you need in order to find the proper kpis that can finish your budget calculations so in order to help you out i've created a sheet and I will tell you that in the next slide. So what I also like to do when it comes to budget is to include budget buffers based on my primary focus. So let's say if you are really growth focused, you might need some additional budget for testing and scaling in order to see what works and to quickly scale up when needed. While a fishy focus campaign should include a smaller buffer for optimization and maintaining a minimum viable volume needed to hit your goals. And these buffers that you can include within your budget calculation, they make you a little bit more flexible in the case when you need it. So if you're going to ask for budget at your stakeholder, here's a small tip, include a budget buffer. It will give you a little bit more flexibility. You do not have to spend it immediately, but by having that additional buffer you can then well scale yourself without having to ask your stakeholders every time again and again and again so like i said we've made a budget calculator template for you that you can find in the description below this calculator template has three worksheets one for legion one for sas and one for e-commerce and over here you will see different calculation methods so over Here we are in the e-comm sheet. You will see a revenue-based calculation, a transaction-based calculation, a new customer-based calculation. For SaaS, we also have a couple of different calculation methods. You have a couple of simple input fields based on your growth and efficiency targets. You can also insert your buffer percentage. So if you want to have a relatively aggressive buffer, you can, for example, insert 20%. If you want to have a smaller buffer, you can insert 10%. percent and that basically calculates the minimum viable budget without a buffer and a minimum viable budget with a small buffer for some added flexibility for scaling and testing purposes so this makes budget calculation a little bit easier i hope so you can find it in the link below key takeaways over here your goals drive your budget as you saw within these calculation methods and calculation examples and your budget needs to match your google ads goals so you're going to start with your google ads goals and then calculate your budget not the other way around there are different calculation methods per business model as you saw depending on what you're trying to achieve you need different kpis you need different calculations but like i mentioned all roads lead to rome you just have to understand what metrics and numbers to use in in order to make your calculations and your calculations are your baseline. This is your minimum viable budget needed. This is not going to be your ceiling at all. Hence I call it the minimum viable budget and not the maximum viable budget. So additional budget is welcome in order to maybe over deliver in terms of growth targets, but you do not need, you do not want less than your minimum viable budgets, because if you have less budget than your minimum viable budget, you simply cannot hit your growth targets as simple as that so with that i want to end this lesson i hope you found it useful in the next step we're going to check on the feasibility so i hope to see you in the next step of the framework
