# Understanding learning periods conversion cycles and delay

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** bids-budgets-mastery
- **Section:** Fundamentals
- **Duration:** 22:00
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

All right. So in this lesson, we're going to dive deeper into learning periods and conversion cycles. In this lesson, you will learn about the learning period and its impact on bidding strategies. You will learn about the role of conversion cycles, and I will give you some actionable tips to manage learning periods effectively. So smart bidding needs data and a lot of time to ground. And we refer to this as the learning period. So the learning period is essentially a phase when smart bidding collects data in order to refine future predictions, in order to set proper optimized bits at the query level. So a learning period is often triggered by launching a new campaign or launching new strategies, or it is being kicked in by making major campaign changes. For example, when making big target CPA or target ROAS adjustments, like more than 25% adjustments. That often kicks in the learning phase again, because you're most likely to target new auctions that you weren't targeting previously. And therefore, smart bidding needs to learn once again. So by making small incremental adjustments, whether you're increasing or decreasing CPA or ROAS targets, you often prevent the learning phase from kicking in. Google is essentially saying that there is no learning period officially, but they are referring to a learning cycle within the conversion cycle where it needs to adjust within one or two conversion cycles. We're going to touch on that in a bit. I think that's just another way of saying that they do have a learning phase. So always be aware of making, well, big changes to your campaigns that it can kick in a learning phase once again. So a learning phase typically lasts between seven and 14 days, but it varies a lot by the data going through your account. And typically, the more conversion data you have within your account, the shorter the learning period is because Google can learn quicker because it has more data at hand. So during the learning phase, you have to keep in mind that conversions will fluctuate and performance data is going to be volatile. Targets will also not be met in most cases. So be aware of this. You always want to educate your stakeholders on this. So when you are expecting a learning phase to kick in by launching a new campaign, when making big adjustments within your campaign, educate your stakeholders and tell them that it is likely that you're going to expect fluctuations. So this prevents your stakeholder from, well, writing emails, calling you like, hey, this is going totally in the wrong direction, where you have to then educate them and explain them that you are within a learning period and you need to have a hands-off approach. if you are going to be proactive about that nothing will happen and you can essentially head towards the head through the learning learning phase of two weeks without too much hassle so make sure to to do that please also you want to avoid making significant changes within the learning phase because it will disrupt the learning phase you want to keep things stable you want to have an hands-off approach so also educate your stakeholders about that like hey we're launching this new campaign right now in the next two weeks i'm not going to touch it i'm going to let it run and then afterwards we can evaluate and we can start optimizing and working away towards our target so keep that in mind it's really important so most of the time we face learning phases during the launch of new campaigns and this is how to deal with them so essentially you have four steps that you want to go through the first step is that you want to launch your new campaign with the correct initial bid strategy based on the bid strategy decision tree that we've created in this particular module in the next step in step two you want to learn where you want to avoid making significant changes during the learning phase and the learning phase what typically has a duration of 7 to 14 days i generally look at things i typically look at the learning phase because being two weeks essentially unless i have really high volumes to work with then i'm going to shorten it to one week in this phase you want to monitor but you definitely do not want to overreact to fluctuations and you also don't want to make big changes in the next step in step three you are looking to stabilize essentially where after the learning period after 7 to 14 days you want to evaluate results and when applicable you want to make the first couple of changes. For example, if you started out with a relatively aggressive bid strategy in order to gather a lot of conversion data, where it is likely that you're going to gather a lot of conversion data in the first couple of days, maybe you selected maximize conversions as the appropriate bid strategy. And in this step, you want to migrate towards a target CPA. Well, in that phase, you can start setting a target CPA based on the averages that you had in the first couple of days. And then in the last step, in step four, you can start optimizing your campaign and you can start scaling it depending on your goals, where you can start gradually making bigger changes. You can start changing budgets, start making bigger target CPA changes or target ROAS changes. You can start building out your keyword targeting, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. So this is where you can start really working on your newly created campaign. so i've made a little case about where you can see how i like to deal with the learning phases when launching a new campaign so this is a recent case where i launched a new campaign where you can see the learning phase in a well real solid way so this campaign was launched in the week of 17 june 2024 the week prior to that it had zero data as you can see so this is where i started out with a maximized conversion strategy because I was looking to gather a lot of conversion data really quickly, where I also expected a lot of conversion volume to come in. So therefore, maximized conversions is a really solid strategy to begin with, instead of, for example, maximized clicks or manual CPC. Then in the week thereafter, I had enough conversion data in order to migrate from maximized conversions to target CPA. So in the next week, in the week of 24 June, I started migrating towards a target CPA strategy. And you can already see the target CPA being declined a bit where I based the target CPA on the averages minus a little bit to make the first adjustment towards our efficiency target. And then in the week thereafter, starting in the week of 1 July, I started gradually lowering my CPA targets in order to work away towards our target CPA that we have discussed in order to hit our Google Ads goals. And you can see the CPA being decreased week by week, and it started to decrease even more after these weeks. So this is how I work with learning periods. And depending on the conversion data going through your newly created campaign, well, you can speed up things or you have to take things a little bit slower so when running campaign experiments learning periods also still apply so always exclude the learning phase from your analysis to ensure apple to apple comparisons and making accurate conclusions surprisingly google does not do this automatically when running a campaign experiment which i find really weird because even their advanced product specialists that they have working in-house are continuously well telling you to exclude the learning phase and also the conversion lag period in order to have a proper apple to apple comparison between your original campaign and your experiment campaign i still don't know why google is not doing that automatically inside of the platform so you have to do this manually by yourself so let's see how to deal with learning phase and campaign experiments so over here i was running a campaign experiment based on a profit optimum experiment. So based on a bit simulator forecast, I essentially calculated the profit optimum, where you can see that with a higher CPA target, we are able to bring in a lot more conversion volume, bring in a lot more revenue, and therefore also a lot more gross profit by essentially or net profit by essentially subtracting the revenue minus the cost well this is our optimum so i basically did a campaign experiment i ran it from 24 september to 21st of october so close to one full month and within this full month you saw that every single statistic was statistically significant within 95 confidence interval so meaning we had enough data to to properly compare the original campaign with the experiment arm so to say and this is where you'll want to filter out the learning period and also the conversion lag so over here you can see the experiment date the full date that essentially matched the full campaign experiment period and i over here excluded the learning periods of the first week and also excluded the conversion lag of the last two days this particular customer has a one day average conversion lag so in order to be sure to exclude all of well all of the conversions that were are going to attribute later i made sure to exclude one day on top so excluding two days at the end of the filtered experiment day leading to a filter date of 30 september to 19 october instead of 24 September to 21st, October, and you can see the big differences in absolute and percentage differences. So look at the differences in terms of conversions, CPA, conversion rate, revenue, ROAS, and also profit. So by looking at the filtered campaign experiment data, you are way more likely to compare Apple with Apple's. And you can essentially see over here with this experiment, with applying a higher CPA, we were able to also conclude that we are able to hit a higher profit level with a, well, 20% higher profit in our experiment arm. So afterwards, we essentially applied this experiment because obviously good results, great results. But this is how you can work with learning periods and conversion lags in experiments as well. So take into consideration that important note when running experiments. So next to understanding learning periods you have to understand how conversion cycles impact your learning. So what are conversion cycles? Well conversion cycles is basically the amount of time it takes for a click to result in a conversion. So for example if most clicks result in a conversion within three days then smart bidding would adjust conversion performance in approximately three days google is essentially telling us that smart bidding needs one to two full conversion cycles to properly adjust based on the well new new data that came in so let's say you have a relatively long conversion cycle of seven days where it takes seven days to on average turn a click into a conversion then it could take up 7 to 14 days before smart bidding is adjusting its performance based on your historical data so this is really really important to understand and that is why i think that conversion cycles still impact your learning period and there is in fact a learning period because google is referring to this as well basically a learning period even though they're saying that they don't have one which is really weird from my perspective but if you look at short conversion cycles then you essentially also have short learning periods so the shorter your conversion cycle for example you have a conversion cycle of on average two days well then you have a really short learning period of two to four days one to two conversion cycles if you have a long conversion cycle for example 14 days it might result in a learning period of 14 to 28 days and that results in a relatively long learning period so you always want to take into consideration that when making big adjustments while having a really big conversion cycle that it can take time before you can start seeing its effect and this is also where you once again educate your stakeholders on so they know what to expect and you also know what to expect when looking at the results so if you're curious how long your conversion cycle and conversion delay is you can head over to your bid strategy reports or you can head over to your campaign reports where sometimes you can see the conversion delay as well. So it's a bit difficult to to get here but I'm going to tell you in a bit how you're going to get to your bid strategy report because you need to apply a column your bid strategy column and then you can click on your bid strategy which is a blue hyperlink that brings you to your bid strategy report over here you can see the average conversion delay and your average conversion delay equals your conversion cycle so over here you can see that we have an average conversion delay of 15 days it's relatively small on screen but it takes 15 days before a click on average turns into a conversion which is relatively long and this is a high ticket e-commerce B2C webshop, which is, well, really extraordinary, basically. So in this case, one full conversion cycle equals 15 days. And that means that your conversion cycle and your learning period is relatively long. So you can access your campaign level bid strategy reports or your portfolio bid strategy reports by adding the bid strategy type column to your campaign columns, essentially. And then you can click on the hyperlink that is your bid strategy. If you're using portfolio bid strategies, you can head over to your tool section, budgets and bidding, then select portfolio bid strategies, and you can then select the bid strategy you're looking for. And when clicking on it, you will see a similar bid strategy report for all of the linked campaigns where your portfolio bid strategy is linked towards. So over here, you can, well, understand conversion cycles. You can understand conversion delays. You can understand conversion projections. and over here you can also see that i need a 15 days on average before a conversion is being fully reported so this is really really valuable data and it really tells you a lot about when your conversions are being fully attributed in platform inside of your google ads conversion columns so when evaluating results you always want to wait at least one conversion cycle at least one conversion cycle. And this ensures that all conversions are attributed to conversion due to the conversion delay. And this is also why I tend to look at the conversion delay slash the conversion cycle for scheduling my monthly performance meetings with my customers. Because for that particular customer, I need an average conversion delay of two weeks. And therefore, I am planning our monthly performance meetings in the second week of the new month instead of in the first week of the new month because that means that we can look at the results in a fully attributed way and then properly make conclusions personally i like to look at the conversion the regular conversion metrics when evaluating results instead of looking at the conversion by time metrics if you want to look at the conversion by time metrics it allows you for even quicker analysis and also quicker decision making because in that case you do not have to wait for well the full attribution back to the eventual click because the conversion by time metrics is essentially telling you well when a conversion happened and it isn't going to attribute it back to a click so if you want to make quicker decisions if you want to look at your results in a more quick quick way make sure to also incorporate conversion by time metrics but like i said i mainly utilize the regular conversion metrics because this is also what i like to report on where the conversion is being attributed to the to the click so over here you can see the conversion by time comparison so over here you see the regular conversion columns which are not highlighted and you can also see the conversion by time related metrics and you can see that looking back at the last 30 days knowing our conversion cycle is on average 15 days where we know the conversions aren't attributed to the click yet but looking at the last 30 days you will see a uplift when looking at the conversions by conversion time metrics so this leads to quicker analysis quicker performance reviews so if you want to do that then make sure to also look at these kinds of metrics you can easily add them to your reports so lastly i want you to understand how google accounts for data recency and also conversion delays because there are some interesting insights that you can also know about in order to fully understand how the algorithm works. So over here, you can see how algorithms handle conversion cycles. So smart bidding essentially applies adaptive historical weighting to rely more heavily on recent data, because the more recent your performance data is, the more predictive it is of near future performance. However, it weighs less heavily against clicks that aren't yet seeing conversions. So they are taking into consideration your conversion lag. So they're doing that in order to avoid overreacting to delay. So let's say they were not doing that and they didn't see conversions coming in, in your conversion cycle of two weeks, for example, they would then start overreacting, affecting your bits in a negative way. So therefore they apply this adaptive historical weighting in order to set proper bids according to your conversion cycle so if you have shorter cycles then recent data is more predictive of future performance so therefore smart bidding rapidly adjusts based on the data it has at hand but if you have really long cycles for example two weeks maybe even one full month or maybe even longer then google looks at your recent conformance conversion data less heavily to account for delayed conversions and this is really important to understand because if you're working for a long conversion cycle account it might result in really long learning periods so let's say you're doing b2b lead gen and you have an average of 30 day click to attribution window conversion cycle that means that smart bidding is taking into consideration that full conversion cycle before setting newer adjusted bits so if you're making changes and you're looking at your results you're monitoring you're analyzing make sure to take that into consideration because you don't want to to interpret your your performance in a wrong manner where smart bidding is still adjusting based on the conversion cycles you have to deal with so key takeaways over here learning periods are triggered by new campaigns or major changes typically last between 7 to 14 days but it depends on your conversion cycle and also your conversion volume you want to avoid changes during this phase to prevent disruptions conversion cycles essentially tells you how long it takes for and click to result in a conversion on average the impact it impacts the learning period length where the learning period is typically matched to one to two full conversion cycles a short cycle leads to faster bid adjustments where smart bidding is able to learn more faster if you have a long conversion cycle it will make slower adjustments because it will look at historical conversion data more heavily instead of recent conversion data so keep that into consideration lastly i want to give you some practical tips you want to exclude learning periods and conversion lags in performance reviews so look at your bid strategy reports to understand your learning period your conversion cycle and also your conversion lag you want to use your bid strategy reports in order to do so you can access them by adding a new custom column no sorry not a custom column a column to your campaign reports bid strategy type it will give you blue hyperlinks to select your bid strategy of choice that is linked to that particular campaign then you will be able to see those metrics if you're leveraging a portfolio bid strategy you can head over to tools and bidding portfolio bid strategies and then select the portfolio strategy of choice and it will give you the same insights and lastly smart bidding adapts and uses adaptive historical weighting for making better predictions and that can heavily heavily influence how smart bidding is going to react on fluctuations inside of your account so with that i hope you now understand how smart bidding works inside of your accounts with this you can also properly educate your customers how things work under the hood so to say and it also leads to better performance reviews and making adjustments inside of your account
