# Bid strategies you can choose from

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** bids-budgets-mastery
- **Section:** Fundamentals
- **Duration:** 26:44
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

So when it comes down to selecting the right bid strategy for your particular campaign, there are a lot of things to be considered. So in this particular lesson, I want to give you an overview of the most important manual and automated bid strategies. And I'm going to tell you when to use and when to avoid each of them separately. So there's a lot to choose from. And over here, you can see the bid strategies that are available and that we use as Google Ads specialists at a daily basis, so to say. So this is a filtered overview because there are more bid strategies available, like viewable CPM and stuff like that. But only 1% of the Google Ads users are using that particular strategy. And therefore, I chose not to include them inside of these lessons because they're so niche. So these ones are the ones that we are going to work with as Google Ads specialists for 99% of the time, so to say. And therefore, we're going to address all of these. So when it comes to manual bid strategies, we only have one particular bid strategy available, and that is a manual CPC. We don't have enhanced CPC available anymore because that manual bid strategy has been downplayed and downgraded by Google Ads, where we only have a manual CPC strategy right now without having, well, some nudges of automation included. So if you want to do a manual bid strategy, you only have one choice, and that is to go for manual CPC. On the other hand, we have automated bid strategies where we have maximized clicks, where we're going to maximize your click volume throughout your campaign, so to say. You also have target impression share, where you can aim for a particular impression share rate within your campaign, basically optimizing for visibility. then you have maximize conversions we're going to maximize your conversion volume maximize conversion value we're going to maximize your conversion value whether that is your revenue or profit depending on your conversion input and then you can also include a optional target CPA or target ROAS we're also going to be able to stare on efficiency so we're going to maximize your conversions within a particular target CPA, or where you're going to maximize your conversion value within a particular target ROAS. So let's dive into every single bid strategy separately, where we're going to address the pros, the cons, the most frequent use cases, and also when to avoid certain bid strategies. And let's start with manual CPC. So manual CPC is the one manual bid strategy that you can choose from, where you can basically set a maximum cpc for every single keyword you can set this on the keyword level you can even set this at the ad group level or if you're doing standard shopping campaigns then you can also set that to your listing group level where you're basically going to set one manual bit for all of the underlying listings your product so to say and this gives you full control over your bits where you're the one behind the steering wheel so to say and google cannot really set bits automatically based on when they think certain clicks are going to convert and vice versa. So if you're looking for control, this is a great strategy. The con, however, is that it is really time intensive and it doesn't leverage machine learning and also additional signals that smart bidding or automated bid strategies has access to. So if you're going to choose for this manual bid strategy, you're going to lose out on a lot of computing power, so to say, and a lot of additional signals that google has in their database that is that aren't available to you or to me as a google ads advertiser inside of the platform so that's the biggest con that i think is really important but there are frequent use cases when you can use manual cpc for example when you are starting out with a new account or a new campaign and you need granular control in the first phase because you might have zero historical conversion data and you have to get some traction first where you want to prevent, well, smart bidding from overspending in the first couple of weeks or first couple of days because they do not know what's going to convert and not. So in that case, you can start out with a manual CPC gradually and slowly. Or there are cases when you need full control over manual bids due to various reasons. For example, if you're running a branded search campaign in those cases it is really the best practice to utilize manual cpc because that way you can essentially steer for a particular impression share without paying too much if you compare manual cpc to target impression share then most of the times when you're utilizing target impression share for your branded campaign they're going to overspend and with manual cpc you're the one behind the steering wheel where you can gradually well bring down bits and there are, like I said, a lot of different reasons as well, but it gives you full control and also granular control over bits. And sometimes you have to deal with low conversion volumes and low spent accounts where you simply do not have the conversion volume inside of that particular account to utilize automated bitstrate. And manual CPC could be a solution to still optimize your bits for your most important keywords, so to say. Well, then there are a couple of reasons to avoid manual CPC, and that is when you have a lack of access to auction data and real-time signals that smart bidding uses. So if you want to utilize, well, machine learning and Google's computing power, then, well, you're going to miss out when using manual CPC. So that is a really big con personally, that I think is one of the biggest ones. Automated bidding strategies also has proven to be more effective in most scenarios where you have enough conversion volume and where you're feeding the algorithm with a lot of data where manual CPC tends to well underperform in those cases and if you are looking to automate your campaigns and you're looking to well free up time and free up resources to spend elsewhere within your account or outside of Google Ads Then you also want to avoid manual CPC because it is really time intensive to manage, especially for large or really complex campaigns. And obviously there are rules that you can use within Google Ads. There are scripts that you can build yourself in order to automate your manual CPCs, but there still is a lot of manual checks involved that you need to be aware of when utilizing this strategy. So be aware of those instances. Next up, maximize clicks. So maximize clicks automatically sets bits to get the most clicks within your budget. So the biggest pro of this particular strategy is that you have a quick traffic boost where it is also really easy to manage because all you have to do is to make sure that your targeting is relatively strict. So you definitely do not want to use broad match or any sort when utilizing maximize clicks because it will go too broad. But if you're utilizing exact match, for example, and you're looking for a quick boost in your volumes and traffic within your budget, then maximize clicks is really solid. The biggest con, however, is that it might drive a lot of irrelevant traffic because it has no focus on traffic quality or conversions, clicks that are likely to convert, so to say. So like I said, if you're going to utilize maximize clicks, make sure that your targeting is relatively strict. In terms of audience targeting, in terms of match types and keyword targeting, because the algorithm will go very, very broad if you don't do so. So most frequent use case over here is when traffic generation is your primary goal. My clients are all performance based where they have a relatively aggressive growth goal within a particular efficiency. I have yet to find a client that is aiming for traffic generation. I think those clients are not fit for me personally, but sometimes you might have those cases. So for those cases, maximized clicks might be the correct strategy. And the other use case is when you want to gather data quickly in new accounts or campaigns. So instead of utilizing manual CPC, you can also utilize maximized clicks in order to ramp up the volumes really quick, where you might bring in a lot of irrelevant traffic or non-converting traffic in the first couple of days, first couple of weeks, but it is going to give a relatively quick boost in terms of traffic and therefore hopefully also traction that you can then use to transfer to a conversion focused strategy later. You want to avoid this strategy if you are prioritizing click quality and value over click volume traffic. You also want to avoid this when CPA or ROAS are critical efficiency metrics for you that you want to stay within. So with maximized clicks, you're definitely going to overpay because there's no focus on efficiency. And if you're working with limited budgets that require cost efficiency, then I would also not be the biggest proponent of maximized clicks because yes, it will give you the most traffic within your limited budget, but it is likely that it will bring in a lot of irrelevant non-converting traffic. So in that case, you might be better off utilizing a manual CPC, but that's up to you and you can also, you can also basically run a campaign experiment to find out what strategy works best for you in that particular instance. Number three is target impression share and target impression share is also an automated business strategy that aims to achieve a specific ad visibility. For example, the absolute top of the page position, which is the number one position within the search engine result page. You can also stare for the top of the page results that are, well, also within the top ad placements within the search engine result page. And you can then also utilize a particular percentage. So you can basically tell Google ads and instruct Google ads to aim for a 95% absolute top of the page rate. And then Google is going to optimize for that particular visibility rate. So the pro, I'm sorry, is that it gives you a high visibility due to high ad positions. It also has a really, really good CTR because of the, well, great ad positions that you can optimize for. And therefore, it can also lead to a lot of volume. It also builds awareness because even though when people might not click on your ad, they're still seeing your ad. So it's still some sort of a brand awareness thing that is also incorporated. Then in terms of the con, it can be really costly and has no focus on traffic quality, conversions, or ROI. So when running the target impression share strategy, it might result in the most costly clicks, especially if you do not cap those clicks in terms of max CPCs. so be aware of that can be very very costly but it does have a couple of a couple of use cases so sometimes you can use it for brand campaigns in the past i've been using target impression share as a go-to strategy for my brand campaigns so to say right now i am defaulting to manual cpc because i'm able to bring down the average cpc while still maintaining my absolute top of impression shares and maintaining a really solid ctr and that basically tells me that when utilizing target impression share you're generally overpaying for your clicks and the other use case might be that you want to dominate the search engine result page for high converting or really competitive terms that are important to you in those instances you can also isolate those terms put it into a separate campaign and then run this target impression share strategy to optimize for well really solid ad placements or a really high visibility so to say you want to avoid this strategy when niche CPCs are relatively high. Because like I said, this strategy can inflate cost a lot, especially if you use a too aggressive percentage that you want to optimize for, for example, a 95% absolute top of page rate without a max CPC. Well, in those instances, if you are active within a really competitive vertical, you are going to pay a lot and you are also really likely to overpay a lot for a slight increase of visibility and slight increase of traffic. So be aware of that, be aware of that. And then you also want to avoid it when competition is fierce and also aggressive, because when utilizing this strategy, it can provoke bidding wars. That's how I like to refer to it. So let's say your competitor or two of your main competitors are utilizing maximized conversions without a target CPA cap, and you're the one using a target impression share with a relatively high percentage rate, for example, 95% absolute top of page rate, well, that could lead to a bidding war. And that is going to cost not only you a lot of money, but also your competitors. And your competitors doesn't really matter to you, but is going to trickle down in a really solid bidding war that is going to be really costly to you. And you want to avoid this when campaigns where top ad positions don't guarantee a better ROI when you're efficiency focused. So if you're efficiency focused and the ROAS is important to you, the CPA is important to you, also stay away from this particular strategy. Next up, maximized conversions. So with maximized conversions, you can automatically adjust bits to get the most conversions this is a very hands-off strategy optimizing for conversion volume so that is a really simple automated strategy to give you the most conversion volume possible within your budget the con however is that you will overspend as it doesn't have guardrails it doesn't have cpa targets if you're utilizing this strategy And therefore, it can become really costly because you're not slowing down the algorithm and you're not telling him to stay within a particular efficiency range. And therefore, well, your CPCs might skyrocket, your cost per conversions might skyrocket, and therefore, your return on investment might be relatively low. But if that isn't really a problem to you and you're looking to maximize conversion volume, then this is a really solid use case. It is also a solid use case when launching new campaigns to ramp up, for example, conversion data. So if you like to be aggressive and you think and expect that a lot of conversions are going to trickle in and basically are generated in the first couple of days, first couple of two weeks, then you can utilize maximized conversions because it will give you a lot of data quickly when also trying to optimize for conversions from day one, but it is going to be expensive. And I would only advise you to do this instead of running a manual CPC at the very first beginning. If it is likely that you're going to generate a lot of conversions in the first couple of days, first couple of weeks, that the maximize conversion bit strategy is going to utilize and capitalize on in order to generate more of them. If the system cannot find any conversions in the first couple of days weeks and you're still utilizing this strategy it will go crazy and it will spend a lot of your money so lastly a use case of maximize conversions is when you are easily hitting your efficiency targets so maybe you have a great an amazing looking conversion rate and therefore a really really solid cost per conversion so to say and you're looking to scale aggressively within your efficiency targets well if that is the case and you are well below your efficiency targets well then you can experiment with letting go of your target cpa and running maximized conversions well without a guardrail so to say and that could lead to even more volume so that is a really solid experiment to do if you are if you are in that particular situation you want to avoid this strategy when you focus on driving revenue or profit because if that is the case you're better off with maximized conversion value or target ROAS and you want to avoid this particular strategy when you have strict efficiency targets a CPA target that needs to be met obviously you can use this strategy to ramp up your new created campaign in the first couple of days first couple of two weeks so to say and then transform to a target cpa strategy but if a target cpa is important to you and you have well-matured campaigns then this isn't going to be the best strategy for you unless you are well below your efficiency target and you want to maximize your conversion volumes even more like i said in the previous two minutes so next up Maximize conversion value. Well, maximize conversion value lets you optimize for the highest conversion value possible. And it really depends if you are importing the revenue or importing your gross profit that the maximize conversion value strategy is going to optimize for. So let's say you're importing the gross profit. Well, then obviously this strategy is going to optimize for the highest gross profit possible without efficiency targets within your budget so the pros of this strategy is that it is a really hands-off bid strategy lets you optimize for conversion value revenue profit and you just let go of things the biggest con is that it may overspend heavily as it doesn't have guardrails just like the conversion the maximize conversions strategy and the guardrails over here are your ROAS targets instead of your CPA targets but it does have frequent use cases for example when conversion value is more important than conversion volume and you have a conversion value focus campaign with no strict ROAS targets so sometimes you might want to just optimize for revenue optimize for profit without having efficiency targets at all like i said in the beginning i have performance-based clients so i always have efficiency targets but you might have a case or use case where efficiency doesn't matter or you just want to optimize for the highest revenue or profit possible without giving it any guardrails slash efficiency targets. You want to avoid this when driving conversion volume is more important than value. In that case maximize conversions is more applicable. You also want to avoid this when you have strict efficiency targets, ROAS targets in this case, that needs to be met and you want to avoid this when you see rapid budget depletion due to aggressive bidding so this strategy can be relatively aggressive and if you see that it really goes through your daily budget really really soon then it might not be the best strategy for you and you might want to set a target ROAS to restrict the algorithm a bit. Next up target CPA. So target CPA automatically adjusts your bits to maximize conversions within a particular target CPA. And the target CPA is something that, well, is basically based on the conversion action that you're importing. So let's say you're optimizing for raw leads as a lead generator, then the target CPA is essentially a target cost per lead. But if your primary conversion action is a qualified lead, then your target CPA would be a target cost per qualified lead. If your primary conversion action is a closed deal, then your target CPA would be a target customer acquisition cost, so to say. So it really depends on the conversion action you're importing over here. The pro of this strategy is that it has a really predictable average CPA if you're driving sufficient conversion volume through your campaign or through your portfolio bid strategy. and it is great for controlled scaling so if you want to scale beyond what you're doing currently and you want more growth well then you can easily and also safely scale to more conversion volume by decreasing your sorry increasing your cpas a bit and that basically lets you to let you to spend a little bit more aggressively in terms of cpcs frequent use cases are when conversion volume matters more than conversion value. And you want to maximize conversions, but have specific efficiency targets, which are your guardrails. So for my lead gen clients, where I'm not utilizing value-based bidding, we're going to touch on that later. I'm basically utilizing target CPA per default. If I'm optimizing for e-comm, then I'm utilizing target ROAS in most cases, because like I said all of my clients have guardrails efficiency targets. So when do you want to avoid this strategy? Well you want to avoid this strategy when you are driving insufficient and inconsistent conversion volumes. So this strategy only works when you have we're going to dive deeper into that later as well and you want to avoid this when you have unrealistic or undefined efficiency targets. So if you do not know what your break-even CPAs are and what your target CPA should be. You should definitely go back to the drawing board and calculate them first before utilizing this strategy. And sometimes you have unrealistic target CPAs. And in those cases, you might have a unit economics related problem. You also want to go back to the drawing board because in those cases, you might not have any traction at all because your target CPAs are too low, where you cannot drive any meaningful volumes. So lastly, we have target ROAS. So within a target ROAS strategy, bits are optimized to maximize conversion value within a particular ROAS target. The pro of this strategy is that you have a really predictable average ROAS, which is also great for controlled scaling. The predictable average ROAS really depends on the amount of conversion volumes you run through your account. And it also really depends on your average order value fluctuations. So if you have really fluctuating average order values, basically, let's say the one day your average order value is 100 euros and the other day it is 1000 euros. Well, in that case, you might see a lot of fluctuations. So be aware of that because the average the target ROAS strategy is looking at your conversion value column and it is using that value in order to set proper bits if that isn't really constant and it is fluctuating too much you're also going to see that in inside of your CPCs that are basically being set and that is going to translate down to fluctuating click volumes conversion volumes etc. The biggest con of this strategy is that it may reduce conversion value and also require sufficient conversion data so since you're limiting the the algorithm and setting specific efficiency targets it is going to well restrict itself a bit for most of the times a solid reason because you want to maximize value within a particular efficiency target but it is a con and most frequent use case are when conversion value matters more than conversion volume when you want to maximize conversion value, but have efficiency targets like guardrails to set. In that case, a target ROAS might be better than a maximized conversion value. And you want to avoid this when you are driving insufficient and inconsistent conversion volumes. In that case, you might be better off selecting a different BIS strategy in the beginning, or maybe take a closer look at your conversion actions and your conversion tracking. Because like I said, this strategy needs sufficient volume in order to properly work you also want to avoid this just like target cpa when you have unrealistic or undefined efficiency targets if you do not know what to optimize for if you do not know solid what your solid guard rails are then first go back to the drawing board make sure to know your break-even row s make sure to translate your break-even row s to a particular target row s and then see if that is realistic or not and if that is still unrealistic then you might want to go back to the drawing board because just like target cpa there might be a different underlying problem like unit economics so choosing the right bid strategy depends on your goals which is the most important thing over here it depends on your conversion volume your data quality and also depends on certain constraints so we've made a really easy to follow decision tree for every single campaign type out there for selecting the best possible bid strategy for your particular situation so this is what you can expect in the next couple of lessons where i'm going to dissect these flow charts these decision trees in order in order to select the correct bid strategy so over here you can see the flow chart for search that basically tells you when to select which bid strategy based on your goal, based on the matureness of your campaign, based on your conversion data, et cetera. So in the next couple of lessons, I would like to touch on these particular flowcharts and hopefully see you there.
