# Framework: Determine your budget to achieve your goals

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** bids-budgets-mastery
- **Section:** Determining budgets
- **Duration:** 16:35
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

All right, so in this lesson, I'm going to introduce you to our framework, determine your budgets to achieve your goals. So in this lesson, you will learn how to use our framework for budgeting, how each step builds on previous steps in this particular framework, when to use which part of the framework, and what to expect in the upcoming deep dive lessons where we're going to be dissecting every single step of the framework. So determining your Google Ads budgets isn't difficult as long as you know the right things to do and if you follow the right steps. So why does this framework matters? Well, most campaigns fail due to poor budget planning and you might lose out on a lot of growth potential because you simply don't know how to budget properly. Without a structure, budget setting becomes also arbitrary. I see a lot of accounts that I audit where budgets are being randomly allocated without having a proper understanding of what the goal is that you're trying to achieve. And also proper budget planning enables you to hit your growth goals And by now you should have growth goals already. So over here, you can see our four-step framework. The first step is where you start with your Google Ads goals. You want to refer to your existing goals to determine your growth goal over here. It doesn't matter if your growth goal is a primary goal or a secondary goal within your, but you need to have a growth goal in place in order to know what you need to budget for. Then in the second step, you need to understand your minimal viable budget. And over here, you can use our basic formulas based on your particular vertical, lead gen, SaaS, or e-com to calculate your minimum viable budget needed to hit your growth targets that you have defined. In the third step, you're going to validate your budget feasibility. This is where you want to validate if your budget can be spent at all based on different variables like search volumes that are available, targetable users in mid and upper funnel, competition levels, and stuff like that. and then in the last step you're going to be allocating your budgets into well daily budgets so to say it doesn't matter if that is going to be allocated through individual budgets or shared budgets but you do need to know your daily budgets in order to drive the most potential impact out there to hit your growth goals so let's dissect every single step in an overarching way in order to well fully explain how this framework is set up and then in the next couple of lessons we're going to dissect every single step of them. So let's start with your Google ads goals and this is going to be your foundation. So your primary focus determines your budgeting approach because growth targets drive your minimum budgets needed in order to hit your growth volumes. For example your conversion volumes, your revenue targets, etc. Your efficiency targets over here are your guardrails in order to, well, not budget, not overspend or not underspend in order to fly out of the corner, work towards a break-even level, or maybe work your way towards the starvation zone that we've discussed. So that's what you prevent by utilizing efficient targets as well. So your Google Ads goals need to be balanced and therefore you're also going to have a balanced budget approach. So your Google Ads goals impact your required budget size. It also impacts the budget allocation priorities within certain campaign types, within certain campaigns. It also tells you a little bit more about the risk tolerances that you need to adhere to. And also it gives you a timeline for scaling. So the more aggressive your growth goal is going to be, so let's say you have a primary goal within your Google Ads goal combination, where growth is your primary goal and your growth goal are really aggressive, well, that is going to tell you something about the budgets needed in order to hit those goals. So over here, you can see once again, a Google Ads goal where you combine growth and efficiency. So over here, we're trying to generate 25 qualified leads per month throughout the year for less than 45 euros per qualified lead. So that is the goal we're trying to achieve. And we need to determine our budget based on the growth target, which is going to be generating 25 qualified leads per month. So that is what we need to calculate and what we need to validate as well. So over here, if you don't set clear goals, this is where you're also going to start running into problems. In the previous lessons, I have also explained why you need to have proper goals in order to calculate proper efficiency targets. Over here, we need growth goals in order to also calculate our budget. If we don't have them, your budgets are going to be arbitrary. You are going to allocate random budgets that do not make sense at all. So you do need to have budgets as at this very stage. Sorry, you do need to have goals in order to set proper budgets in this particular stage. So in the next step, you're going to calculate what budget you need to hit your growth goals. And this is going to be your minimum viable budget. this is well where you need to make some some straightforward calculations that are really simple in my personal opinion and this is going to basically tell you what budget you need at the very least in order to hit your growth goals so once again you do need to know your end goal over here and you do need to know your numbers because if you don't you're going to have a problem calculating. So you can think of your minimum viable budget like fuel needed for a road trip that you are going to plan. The first step is that you need to know where you want to go. That is going to be your growth goal. So what is it that you're aiming for? Then you want to know your mileage, which is going to be your efficiency goal. And then you essentially need to calculate the fuel needed, which is going to be your budget in order to get to your destination. so this is a way of thinking about budgeting in order to make things really simple so the budget formula is really simple you want to take your growth target you want to factor in your target efficiency and then you want to calculate backwards and that means well from that point on you have your minimum viable budget so let's say let's say you are running a legion account where your growth goal is 100 leads per month where your efficiency goal is 50 euros cost per lead so to say a 50 euros cpa well in that case we can easily calculate the minimum valuable budget in order to hit both the growth goal and the efficiency goal target by basically taking the target leads and then combining that with the target cpl so for example 100 leads your growth goal times your 50 euro CPL equals 5,000 euros per month needed in order to hit those 100 leads per month for a target CPL, a target cost per lead of 50 euros. So this is going to give you your monthly budget. For SaaS, you might have a growth goal of 100 new users per month for a cost of acquisition cost of at maximum 300 euros so this is where we are also going to calculate the budget by well combining the target users by the target customer acquisition cost the target CAC so if we have this as an example that means 100 new users times a 300 euros cost of acquisition client acquisition cost a 300 euro CAC well that equals a 30k budget per month needed in order to hit our growth goal within this particular efficiency target of 300 euros customer acquisition cost and lastly you can also do this for e-com where your growth goal could be well hitting a revenue target of 100k per month for an efficiency of 400% ROAS well over here simple calculation as well 100k revenue times 400% ROAS equals 25k per month needed in order to hit your revenue target within your efficiency target so to say. Real easy to calculate. So this is easy obviously as once you know your numbers because Google Ads is a numbers game and if you know your numbers if you know your stuff if you know your goals things are going to be really really easy. So important note of here there is no single right way to calculate your budget these are just some examples that i just gave you and you need to choose a method matching your kpis and also your numbers at hand the this lesson is just a simple overview of the steps involved determining your budget and we will go deeper in the deep dives of every single step involved because well these calculations are relatively simple to understand sometimes it can become a little bit more complicated but we've prepared a calculation sheet for that as well to give you some more hands-on examples so to say so in step three you want to head over to well doing a reality check for your minimum viable budget in order to check on the budget feasibility so to say in this step you're going to ask yourself okay what i just calculated is it realistic can i actually spend that that amount of money so this is where you want to validate your budgets and you always want to stay away from unvalidated budgets because if you don't validate your stuff you're also going to run into problems afterwards so you want to think of budget validation like a pre-flight checklist where you want to check on do you have the resources which is going to be your business validation is the market big enough which is going to be your market validation and can you achieve these results, which is going to be your performance validation. So this particular step consists of these three checks that you need to check every single one of them. And if you check them off, then everything is fine and you can continue to the last step, which is going to be your allocation. So the first check is your market validation over here, where you want to check on the search volume potential, impression share opportunities. Is there enough room in your passion share to grow your competition levels how is your auction insights looking like do you already have like a absolute top of pace rate position or is there a lot of room to grow within the auction meaning there's a lot of more volume to capture you also want to check on seasonality impacts by incorporating google trends you can also factor in performance planner you can also check on the keyword planner for a search volume trend so to say so this is real easy to do then you want to do your performance validation, where you want to check on your historical CPA and ROAS trends, and also check for a stability within certain timeframes when you are planning your budget according to your growth goals and efficiency goals. You also want to check on certain diagnostic metrics, such as your conversion rate stability, click-through rates, impression shares. And this is essentially where you want to look at your metrics tree, so to say, in order to see where there are potential scaling opportunities, but also where potential bottlenecks could arise. So in order to spend your budget needed in order to hit your growth goals, well, you might need to have a certain conversion rate, or you might need to have certain internal and external factors like a monthly available search volume, seasonality, query matching, et cetera. you might have an external impact like well competition levels as well so this is where you're going to check on your performance in order to also validate if your budget is feasible so to say and then you have your business validation where you want to also check obviously for your budget availability but this is also a step that I ran into issues previously where I basically planned for a certain budget needed in order to hit specific growth goals but then checking upon by my stakeholders the management layer of the business decided that well we simply couldn't allocate those budgets well that's going to be difficult then in order to hit your google ads growth goals so that is going to lead to a different sort of conversation but you need to check at your stakeholder if you can in fact spend these levels needed to hit your growth goals you should also validate other areas when determining goals for example your operational capacity can you in fact handle the lead volume profitability metrics do you have the juice to hit your growth goals do you have the profit margins do you have the the bidding power in order to well hit your your growth goals and to spend your budget so this is going to be a simple business validation and then in the last step you're going to allocate your budget we're going to distribute it across your account in a strategic way according to the well overarching strategy according to your overarching goals obviously you might want to allocate your budgets differently when looking at specific campaign types according to the different awareness phase levels so this is where you're going to ask yourself different sorts of questions okay where i'm going to allocate my budget in order to hit my growth goals how do i allocate this in the best possible way. In order to do so, you need to ask yourself a couple of questions as well. So you want to think of budget allocation like investing. You want to put most money in proven performance performers. You want to protect what works based on historical performance data. You want to reserve some for growth opportunities. You want to scale what is looking promising. And then you always want to keep a portion of your budget for testing and learning purposes because you always want to be testing what's next so this is very similar when it comes down to investing for example you might want to invest a lot in the S&P 500 as an index fund because it is a proven winner but you also might want to try out certain more aggressive growth stocks in order to well hopefully scale what looks promising so see how easy budgeting has become by using this particular framework we will zoom in on every single step in the upcoming deep dive lessons. So here are a couple of pitfalls to avoid. You want to avoid not knowing your Google Ads goals, because if you don't have your goals, you are going to run into all sorts of problems because this framework is not going to tell you at all what budgets you need to aim for in order to hit your goals. And well, there isn't going to be any framework at all that is going to tell you what is. So you do need to have goals. You don't want to skip budget validation steps. You also do not want to ignore certain business constraints such as, well, do you have the budget? Is the budget allocated to marketing, advertising, any specific Google ads, operational capacity, etc. And you want to stay away from arbitrary allocations. Please stay away from arbitrary budget allocations because you do need to have a plan in order to hit your overarching goals. so by following our budgeting framework step by step you will make sure to avoid any of these pitfalls listed above so key takeaways step one start with your goals never launch a campaign without concrete goals and let your goals guide your business and also budget decisions in step two you want to calculate your minimum viable budget where you want to calculate your budget based on your growth goal, your target goals, and your KPIs that are important to you. You want to stay away from arbitrary numbers over here. In the third step, you want to validate budget feasibility. Can the market deliver? Is there enough search volume? Can you achieve the results based on your historical performances, based on your historical conversion rates, for example? And do you have the resources in terms of, well, budgeting, et cetera? And lastly, in step four, you want to allocate your budget. you want to protect what works you want to scale what looks promising and then you want to test what's next so this is what we're going to dissect in the next couple of lessons in every single step where i'm going to give you way more information and way more well examples of how to do every step of this budgeting framework correctly so hopefully see you there
