# Understanding portfolio bid strategies

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** bids-budgets-mastery
- **Section:** Fundamentals
- **Duration:** 19:52
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

Welcome in the next lesson, and in this lesson we're going to dive deeper into Portfolio Bid Strategies, also known as PBS. So in this lesson you will learn about the key benefits of using Portfolio Bid Strategies, when to combine Portfolio Bid Strategies with consolidated campaigns, Portfolio Bid Strategies and minimum conversion volume thresholds, and the pros and cons of capping CPCs through minimum CPC caps, but also maximum CPC caps. so portfolio bid strategies are automated bidding strategies that work across multiple campaigns that share a similar efficiency goal so to say to achieve a common overarching performance goal and its main purpose is to streamline bidding across multiple campaigns that share the same outcome and the same goal so to say to maximize your efficiency and also business outcome so you can find your portfolio bid strategies if you head over to your tools budgets and bidding and then select bid strategies over here you can see all of your existing bid strategies you can see if they are linked if they are active as of now and if you want to create a new strategy you can easily hit this blue button and basically go through the setup wizard it's really easy to do so it's important to know that portfolio bid strategies have a limited availability when it comes to down to campaign types so you can only use portfolio bid strategies within search standard shopping and display it is not available for performance max video demand gen and app so that's important to know so if you want to link certain campaigns like performance max by utilizing a portfolio biz strategy that simply isn't available because well it simply doesn't work for those campaign types it only works for search standard shopping and display so that's important have to know. So what are the key benefits? Well, the key benefit is that you are able to optimize bids across multiple campaigns by utilizing smart bidding. And you can essentially achieve your goals across a larger group of data, a larger group of conversion data, without having to restructure your campaigns per se. It is also easy to manage and monitor bid strategies in one central location if you recall this screenshot from a couple of seconds ago you can easily see the performance on the portfolio bid strategy level which is linked to a couple of different campaigns and it is possible for you to control minimum and maximal cpc caps to control bids and also well limit the algorithm in a sense from overshooting for example we're going to touch on that in a bit but the biggest pro over here is that you're able to essentially combine and pool together conversion data across multiple campaigns instead of, well, having to rely on the conversion data at the single campaign level by utilizing a, well, regular bid strategy on the campaign level, so to say. So I mentioned that it isn't necessarily needed to restructure your campaigns by consolidating them, but I do still think that that is a best practice because while it's not needed to consolidate your campaigns from a conversion volume perspective, When using portfolio bid strategies, consolidation has more benefits besides conversion volume alone. So if you're going to consolidate your search campaign, for example, into lesser campaigns and also lesser ad groups, you're essentially able to run more data through it. And that also is beneficial to machine learning based products like responsive search ads, because if more data runs through, smart bidding is able to learn faster. Machine learning based products is able to learn faster. For example, if you're utilizing 15 different assets inside of your responsive search ad, Google is able to find better combinations more quicker. So we do still advise you and recommend you to consolidate your campaigns. But if you already have consolidated campaigns and you still have, well, more than one campaign sharing similar goals in terms of a efficiency target, then you can still also consolidate them within a portfolio bid strategy perspective, basically pooling conversion data. And that has a lot of benefits because smart bidding is able to learn from the data in the pooled campaign data, so to say, making better decisions, leading to more consistent results, leading to, well, not having to consolidate even further in order to hit your conversion data thresholds, et cetera. So therefore, what I personally do is that I try to always consolidate my campaigns as far as possible without losing out on relevance, et cetera, et cetera. And then I still look if I can leverage a portfolio bid strategy if certain campaigns share the same efficiency goal. And then I group them together inside, well, one particular portfolio bid strategy or more, if applicable. And that is basically going to have, that's basically a win-win from a consolidated data perspective and a consolidated conversion data perspective where your data is being pooled and where smart bidding simply has more data to work with. So one of the biggest benefits of portfolio bid strategies has to do with conversion volume thresholds, like I just mentioned already. so individual campaigns may struggle to meet campaign specific conversion volume thresholds we always recommend you to aim for 50 conversions per month on the campaign level but that isn't always doable but it is what we recommend you to do because it leads to more consistent results since you're able to feed smart bidding with enough conversion data but if you're utilizing portfolio bid strategies then that particular portfolio bid strategy is going to consolidate the conversion data among all of the linked campaigns enabling campaigns with lower conversion volumes to also utilize strategies like target ROAS or target CPA effectively and this is probably the biggest benefit of utilizing portfolio bid strategies whereas a lot of people only think about the biggest benefit of portfolio bid strategies being that you are able to cap CPCs that isn't the biggest benefit this is so if you're looking for the conversion volume thresholds on a well a 30-day basis we would say well try to optimize for 50 plus conversions per month per single campaign the absolute minimum is 15 conversions per campaign per month if you fall below that you're feeding the algorithm with two less data so those are two big differences minimum thresholds 15 conversions per month recommended thresholds 50 plus conversions per campaign per month but if you're going to transition to a portfolio bid strategy bidding strategy so to say then you still have the same recommended 50 conversions per month threshold which is going to be the sum of the conversions of all of the linked campaigns within that particular portfolio bid strategy and that is going to be way easier for you to hit your conversion volume thresholds and then optimize the smart bidding let smart bidding optimize with all of pooled together conversion data. That is simply going to be really, really powerful for smart bidding input. So for example, let's say you run 10 different campaigns with individual ROAS targets of 500%. Well, some campaigns underperform due to low conversion volume and or fluctuating competition. But when you group those 10 single campaigns together under a single portfolio bid strategy with a 500% ROAS target, which is the same as all of the 10 individual campaigns, so to say, then the algorithm optimizes bids across all of the linked campaigns. So some campaigns may aim for a higher ROAS, for example, 600%, freeing up budget for others to achieve a lower ROAS, for example, 400%. So those particular campaigns can bid more aggressively in order to hit your average ROAS of 500% where the result is that the portfolio as a whole is going to aim for that 500% ROAS goal but with increased volume and better overall performance overall because not only is smart bidding able to stretch certain bits within your highest performing search queries that are more competitive and vice versa but it's also going to be able to pull together conversion data where it is able to learn more quickly and deliver more consistent results. So really, really, really powerful tool. So this isn't something that I made up. Obviously, everything that we teach you is based on real data, that's based on real experiments that we did ourselves, but also based on real data from Google. So I have made sure to also include a couple of screenshots of a Google product specialist that basically explained this to me a year or two ago, which is a really credible source. So if you're really interested in how this works in a more technical perspective, then make sure to also read the two emails that I added in the video description below. So another benefit is the use of shared budgets. And I don't see this a lot. I think it is a underrated feature that a lot of Google Ads specialists aren't utilizing. so what you can do with shared budgets is that you can essentially have a better synergy between your portfolio business strategy and your budgets because your shared budgets distribute your daily budgets across all of your linked campaigns based on its potential performance and this essentially helps optimize both budget allocation and also bidding across all of the linked campaigns and this is especially helpful if you're running a limited budget obviously if you have an unlimited budget and you aren't losing any impressions due to well a limited budget well then this isn't going to be any beneficial but if you are losing out on impressions due to limited budgets then it is worth considering using a shared budget among all of your linked campaigns within that particular portfolio bid strategy because you're going to let portfolio bidding strategy allocate the budget and also bid more competitively where it thinks it can get you the most performance so to say so this is also a really interesting feature that can also help you a lot in terms of while driving more results so using portfolio bid strategies without shared budgets allows for obviously tighter control at the campaign level but you can limit the algorithm's ability to optimize fully across all of your linked campaigns within that particular portfolio bid strategy and for the best results you should always well weigh the trade-offs between control and having flexibility and consider testing shared budgets if your campaigns have aligned goals and performance metrics so once again consider utilizing shared budgets because it can increase well results by better budget allocation across your best performing campaigns so to say. So most Google Ads campaigns or sorry most Google Ads specialists use portfolio business strategies to prevent the algorithm from going nuts and this is basically where portfolio business strategies are mainly being used for for setting maximum CPC caps and this is essentially what can happen if you don't set maximum CPC caps. So over here I went back in one of my accounts a couple of years ago where I wasn't using max CPC caps and you can see that the average CPC came in on 85 cents but we've got really really aggressive outliers all the way up to well close to 25 euro which is well a factor 30 as high as our average and if you don't cap your CPCs this can happen I'm not going to say that this will happen but you can easily head over to your search term reports sort your average CPC from high to low, and then see, well, the potential outliers in terms of really aggressive CPCs. If you see those, you can consider utilizing maximum CPC caps. So how does this work? You essentially have two CPC caps. You have a minimum CPC cap and a maximum CPC cap. Your minimum CPC cap prevents bits from dropping too low, maintaining a particular level of competitiveness. I've never used this myself, but there are cases where you might want to use this. For example, if you want to aim for a particular impression share target, well, in those cases, you could insert a minimum CPC. So the algorithm cannot fall below, so to say. On the other hand, you can also set a maximum CPC cap where you're going to limit bits to prevent the algorithm from going crazy and going nuts based on the previous example like this. so pros and cons it is really useful for controlling costs in really competitive in industries so if you see that you have really aggressive average cpcs with a lot of crazy outliers and i mean a lot so not just a couple but but generally speaking a lot well in those instances it makes sense to utilize for example in max cpc caps but i see a really big con and That is where you're going to restrict the algorithm's flexibility, where you're going to also potentially hindering optimal performance. So my recommendation over here is to only use minimum and maximum CPC caps if you think they are absolutely necessary to use. So even though smart bidding might overshoot, sometimes it often knows best. So it's important to say and to note over here that I've been a long time fan of utilizing portfolio bid strategies solely because it enables me to set max CPC caps where campaign level bid strategies didn't allow me to. But in recent months, I have taken a different stance because instead of always setting a maximum CPC cap, I often don't and leave it up to smart bidding and just monitor carefully. So I accept the not so frequent outliers where the average CPC is just crazy to look at. But if there are just a couple of outliers, then I'm not going to be restricting the algorithm with a maximum CPC. If I do see the algorithm is going nuts and it is going to push too far, or you're within a really competitive vertical, like B2B financing, for example, and in those cases, it might be worthy considering utilizing a maximum cpc cap but per default i don't do it anymore so that's important to say so if you do decide to configure maximum cpc caps you can use this particular rule of thumb that i personally use so i always set my maximum cpc cap at least times three the average cpc of my top converting search terms not keywords so i look at the top converting search terms in my search term report, then see the average CPC, and then basically set the maximum CPC times three, the best converting high volume search queries. And often you're safe enough if you utilize that rule, but you should monitor carefully. So small errors over here can have very, very, very big consequences. And I recently did an audit where, well, something went wrong, horribly wrong with this maximum CPC cap. And this is one of the reasons that I also precautiously do not use maximum CPC caps anymore because small errors can have big consequences. So over here in this particular campaign, the, the portfolio business strategy that was linked was also utilizing a maximum CPC cap, but that maximum CPC cap was set to, well, you guess it, three euros. So over here, the average cost is way lower. But the CPCs of the best converting keywords, and these are just some small volume ones, did plateau at three euros. And therefore, this particular account was restricting smart bidding from, well, bidding even more aggressively, even though it had the room. So if you look at the cost per conversion over here and the average cost per conversion, well, obviously, there's a lot of room to bid more aggressively. and this is going to hurt your impression shares this is going to prevent the algorithm from bidding more aggressively in order to to get a higher ad position so to say and if you do forget about your portfolio bid strategy max cpc cap like this it is going to hurt your performance like crazy so over here somebody forgot to edit their cpc cap so what i proposed after doing the audit was to run a experiment, a treatment, so to say, without having the maximum CPC cap. And over here, you can see what it did with the results. So we didn't really have a lot more clicks over here, but CTR rised pretty much. And also CPCs rose a lot from an average of 160 to 2 euros and 5. And that basically was because some of the highest volume keywords over here that was plateauing at the 3 euro max CPC cap now had way more room to bid more aggressively towards four euros five euros leading to better ad positions so what happened here on the back end was that the search loss impression share due to a too low ad rank decreased heavily because the algorithm was able to bid more competitively and therefore skyrocketing conversion volume but also costs but yeah that's not necessarily a big problem because this led to 36% more conversions within a time span of well just one week of testing. So as you can see a lot of growth potential can be lost by one simple misconfiguration and this particular setting was in there for I think months. So imagine the conversions lost by just one simple misconfiguration like this. So therefore I find it really important to always keeping close eye on your max CPCs if you're going to utilize it, and also do some tests sometimes in order to see if it is in fact really necessary to run your max CPC gaps. So takeaways, portfolio bid strategies streamline bid strategy management across multiple campaigns. You can essentially speed up learning and also group together conversion data by utilizing portfolio bid strategy, where it is especially beneficial for lower volume campaigns. by pairing portfolio business strategies with shared budgets, you can also improve efficiency and results even further. And you can utilize CPC caps, minimum CPC caps, maximum CPC caps to help control performance, but you should be using it cautiously. And if you're going to start utilizing it, make sure to also set alerts. So if you see that certain high volume search queries are going to be plateauing around your max CPC cap, Make sure to keep a close eye on that and make sure to edit your CPC caps in order to prevent what happened over here in this particular account. So with that said, I would like to end the lesson. I hope you find it useful and I hope to see you in the next one.
