# Calculating POAS targets for Ecommerce

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** bids-budgets-mastery
- **Section:** Setting efficiency targets
- **Duration:** 12:17
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

Let's talk about calculating POAS targets for a bit. So in this lesson, you will learn why POAS differs from ROAS targets, how growth goals affect your POAS target settings, how you can use forecasting tools effectively in order to find your POAS targets, and how to find your profit optimum, if that is what you want to optimize for. So setting POAS targets requires a different approach than setting ROAS targets, because there's no need to do any of manual calculations anymore, because your POAS, your profitability will be calculated automatically based on the order level where the system is looking into the cost of goods sold of all of the products that are being bought by your customer, but also taking into consideration all of your order related expenses where, for example, the solution is looking at the payment provider that has been used. And if it was, for example, PayPal, what percentage fee you will have to pay on that particular order level. So everything is being done automatically based on the data you feed the system where you do not have to rely anymore of any of these averages that you do need when you want to approach things from a ROAS perspective. So it's really important to still know that a 100% POAS always equals your breakeven level. And well, since the profitability is calculate on the order level, you can easily see in platform whether or not you're running at a break-even level or not. The concept itself is also simple to understand. For example, a POAS of 100% equals your break-even point where your profit that is being imported from your profit tracking solution equals your ad spend. If you see a POAS of 150%, that means you are getting a 50% profit on ad spend. If you have a POAS of 200% you essentially have a 100% profit on ad spend which is being double the ad spend basically. So for example if you spend 100 euros on ads and you have a POAS of 100 euro your gross profit also equals 100 euros where your net profit comes in at zero because your gross profit minus your cost equals zero in that particular case leading to a break-even level. For example, if you have a POS of 200%, that means you are having a 200 euros in gross profit minus that 100 euros in cost also equals to a 100 euro net profit, leading to a 100% return. So this is essentially how POS is being calculated and how you can understand the profitability levels. So deciding upon a solid POS target really comes down to your growth goals once and again and it doesn't matter if growth is being your primary goal or your secondary goal you always want to have growth goals so if you recall this from the validation lesson instead of this particular module the bits and budget fundamental module you will understand that the more you're looking to have growth the more you're going to be reinvesting your profit into acquisition. And that essentially means that you are going to be moving towards that 100% target POAS, because 100% equals break even. And on the other hand, if you're looking for efficiency, you're heading towards a POAS that might be too high, that could lead to a severe underinvestment, leading to starvation and drying up in terms of volumes. And that's what you want to prevent. So you always want to have like a balance between the two and find a solid spot where you are reinvesting enough to be profitable while also making sure that you're hitting your overarching volume goals, your growth goals. In order to check what POAS you need to hit in order to hit your growth goals, you can use simulation tools like the performance planner. So over here, you can see, well, that I'm using a couple of portfolio business strategies that are, well, POAS based. So the POAS over here is 210%. And you can easily see within Q2 of 2025, I'm projected to have a 33.7K ad spend and a 70.7K in conversion volume. And this is going to be your gross profit. So your net profit is going to be your conversion value minus your spend leading to a, well, conversion value slash spend, which is your POAS of around 200%. So if you can hit your net profit goals with this or your gross profit goals with this, depending on what you're looking at, you can then decide if you need to switch in terms of the profit to acquisition ratio. So yeah, this is basically the same concept as what we have discussed prior to this. But there are also cases where you would like to optimize for the maximum profitability from your Google Ads accounts. and this is called the profit optimum so what you could do is also create similar or multiple scenarios within the performance planner or bit simulator in order to see at what point you're starting to see well diminishing returns in terms of net profit so what you could do is run multiple forecasts over here you can see a bit simulator where you can see different POAS targets. So obviously Google is always going to refer this to target ROAS because they don't know your input is profit instead of revenue, but that is just a small note. So over here, you can see different POAS targets, so to say, and you can see here your conversion value, which is going to be your gross profit if you are importing your gross profit instead of revenue. and what you can do is is quite simple you can essentially copy these values to a spreadsheet where you are going to subtracting the costs from your gross profit and that is going to look something like this so over here i've copied basically the the full scenarios that i saw inside of the bit simulator to a google sheet where you can see different poes targets so to say and you can also input your target manually over here and then it will give you some different results over here as well depending on what you would like to have as incremental OS target steps and then you're going to copy over the costs and the estimated conversion value which is going to be your gross profit then you can easily calculate your net profits you can plop that into a graph like so and you can essentially see at what OS target your net profit is going to be the highest and generally speaking you're always going to see a graph like this because sometimes if you are going to be investing towards that 100% break-even point well obviously you are not going to make any profits because 100% equals break-even and if you start to only increase your PoS targets maybe too aggressively you're also going to be beyond a point of diminishing return where you're going to be investing too much for those last additional conversions and that last additional gross profit so to say and that is going to lead at a well profit decline so it's up to your case how many scenarios you need to make in order to have this profit optimum curve and this could be used in order to well then decide upon okay our main goal is to maximize profit over here which could be your primary goal well then you can use these forecasts in order to come up with the appropriate boas target that is going to lead you to that profit optimum so to speak you can also automate that through the google s api so i've done this for my biggest client where every single week i'm receiving three spreadsheets for three different MCCs and those spreadsheets essentially contain all of my campaigns in different worksheets like you can see and then I've got an overview per MCC where I can see all of the campaigns with the current CPA and the current profitability levels and the suggested new target CPA and the suggested well profit or the predicted profit that is basically giving me the profit optimum when I should basically choose a different target CPA in this particular case. So over here, I'm relying on a target CPA as a primary bid strategy. It simply outperforms a target ROAS, a target POAS, but it completely depends on your unique case, but you can still use the input in order to calculate your optimum as long as your conversion value primary column is giving you the, well, the, the gross profit, so to say. So you can also see it per campaign. So if I head over to a particular worksheet, instead of the overview, I can then zoom in on the, well, scenarios for one campaign in particular. And over here, you can see the existing forecast based on one particular date range that has been defaulted to, well, the next week, so to say, but we have a lot of volume, so this is fairly accurate. And then we can automatically see, okay, the profit at this particular CPA target is the highest. It is giving us well what is this 1300 euros additional profit per week at least that's what it's estimating so maybe we should do like an experiment in order to find out so that's how i'm using the profit optimum when calculating the the the gross profit when calculating the poas in order to see if i need to edit my targets so here's an important note when using forecasting tools like the performance planner or the bit simulator that i just showed you you want to be careful not to take all of the projected volumes at face value you don't want to see them as the truth because these tools typically show smooth curves suggesting linear growth but in reality you will often hit diminishing returns relatively soon and much earlier than what what is being shown inside of the scenarios also the forecasts assume perfect conditions that are being stable and the conditions are never stable because competition is always well messing around increasing bits decreasing bits you might have a particular market saturation level that is also accounting for different variables so you want to be aware of all of those variables impacting your scenarios so if you want to start optimizing for a profit optimum, always do so by running campaign experiments and never just switch your targets, whether that is a target ROAS slash POAS or a target CPA in order to, well, hit your profit optimum, because you always want to fact check through a 50-50 campaign experiment. That's what I would recommend. So key takeaways over here, a 100% POAS always is a break even. Your POAS target really depends on your growth and efficiency goals. You want to avoid the starvation zone at all costs, because that is going to lead to a severe underinvestment, where your target post is going to be too high. You want to find a balance between growth and efficiency. You can use simulation tools like the performance planner, the bit simulator, to find the right efficiency target for you to hit your growth targets. But don't take those forecasts for granted, and always consider diminishing returns. always think about other factors that might influence your scenarios so if you want to find like an optimum like i showed you in these examples please run an experiment to validate so that's it hope you found it useful i'll make sure to link to the template that i showed you below so you can start experimenting with it as well
