# Profit bidding for Ecommerce

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** bids-budgets-mastery
- **Section:** Setting efficiency targets
- **Duration:** 22:39
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

So in this lesson, we're going to dive deeper into profit bidding for e-commerce and you will understand profit-based bidding fundamentals. You will learn more about why ROAS targets can limit your growth potential, how POAS differs from ROAS and how to transition to POAS if you would like to. So at first, it's important to understand that revenue doesn't equal profit and a high ROAS doesn't equal profit as well. And this is what always makes me laugh when I see these 10x ROAS thumbnails on YouTube, but also on social media timelines. It doesn't tell you anything without context. I can have a great looking ROAS of more than 1000%, but if my profitability is near break even, what are you trying to aim for? So over here, I have a screenshot of why a high ROAS doesn't tell you anything. You're seeing that in this particular account, We were hitting a ROAS close to 1000%, which is relatively high if you compare it to a well, general ROAS benchmark. But if you look at the net profits, when comparing the revenue and the cost, and also looking at the POAS, we aren't making any substantial money and profit over here as well. Net profits are relatively low. POAS is relatively low. So it doesn't tell you anything without proper context, without measuring profitability as well. Next to that, we have a thing called the average ROAS trap. At least that's how I like to call it because I see this happening over and over again. So let's say you're selling multiple products within your assortment. Your higher margin product has a break-even ROAS of 270%. But at the other hand, within the same category, you might have a low margin product with a 450% break-even ROAS, which is much more conservative because the margin is going to be lower. And then maybe during a sale, you are also selling discounted products where the effective margin after discount is even lower, meaning your break-even ROAS will be relatively high as well. For example, 600% break-even ROAS. Well, most of the time when you're not tracking profit and you're not optimizing for profitability by utilizing a target POAS strategy, you are going to, well, miss out on certain growth potentials because, well, in this case, you can bid way more aggressively towards your higher margin products coming in at 270% breakeven ROAS. And on the other hand, you might lose out of money if you don't properly account for your, well, lowest margin products over here, your discounted products where your breakeven ROAS is relatively high and coming in at 600%. So you also have to understand that orders have varying break-even points. Generally speaking, if you don't utilize profit tracking, you're staring at an average ROAS target based on your average profitability levels. But as you can see, orders have different margins. Order margins are ranging between, well, 7.6% over here, and yes, it's relatively small, all the way up to 16.43% over here, which is double, more than double the order margin. And you can see its impact on the order level breakeven ROAS. On our lowest margin order over here, the most recent 10 orders, the breakeven ROAS was 14.3% because of the relatively low order level margin. Whereas on the highest order margin that came in at 16.43%, We had a relatively low breakeven ROAS of 6.64%, meaning we can bid way more aggressively looking at this particular order in comparison with this particular order coming in at only an order margin of 7.61% with a breakeven ROAS of 14.32%. So this is also one of the bigger cons if you're utilizing ROAS. people also buy different products with every single order and different products have different margins so over here you can see a well five different products that were part of this particular order this order came in at a revenue of close to 125 euros in revenue and you can see that the gross profit came in at 19.66 euros and the profitability of these products are very different so you need to account for that as well and also people don't buy the product they click on so if you compare the the revenue numbers versus the by looking at the item id sold and you can see this if you're implementing conversions with car data by also importing the cost of goods sold to google ads you can then see the lead revenue and for example the gross sell the cross sell revenue. And this is basically telling you that, well, for example, for the first product, 1266602, we had 178K in revenue and 156K in revenue came in directly from people that clicked on this particular product and actually bought that product directly. But 22K came in in terms of cross-sell revenue meaning this product was actually bought after somebody clicked a different item from coming from a well google product listing ad for example so this is also why margin bucketing doesn't work at all i still see people doing this this only works if you are 100 certain when people click your product and are buying buying the exactly same product and most of the cases that's simply not the case so if you're bucketing based on margins that is simply not going to work because google is going to attribute the conversion and the row as back to the ad click which could be a very different product versus the one actually sold and that means that you will start bidding in the wrong way essentially so here's the problem with row as summarized. Optimizing for revenue won't account for different margins and also additional expenses like order expenses, shipping expenses, fulfillment costs, payment fees. Also, different products have varying break-even points. And you have to take that into consideration when, well, bidding according to an average ROAS. You most of the time have to look at your, well, lowest margin products because that will be your baseline and that will influence your target ROAS. Because if your average ROAS if your target ROAS is too low versus your your lowest margin products you might that might result in well improfitable sales also cross-selling and bundling effects are completely ignored when tracking ROAS based on revenue and ROAS force you to use averages at best and that isn't going to work optimal it is going to result in a lot of inefficiencies it's going to cost you a lot of growth potential because well you have to account for your lowest margin products and well that means out that means that you're losing out on bidding power on your well higher margin products for example so over here i've got an example to illustrate that where averages is killing your growth potential so let's say you are using your highest break even points to account for low margin products for example 600% and most orders will be profitable at lower ROAS for example 400% that means that you will miss out on growth opportunities on those well more profitable products at a lower ROAS because you had to account for those lower margin products coming in at a higher break-even ROAS for example 600% over here. So this is how most advertisers are accounting for lower margin products and yeah it will cost you a lot of growth potential and traction so to say. So long introduction long but there's a better way profit on ad spend also also called POAS. So with a POAS target you essentially set the minimum profit you want to achieve and direct the algorithms to promote products based on the expected profitability based on the uploaded gross profit of your orders to Google Ads. So POAS is essentially considering all costs associated with your order from the cost of goods sold all the way to your payment fees. And it teaches Smart Bidding to allocate budget where it will be mostly profitable. POAS bidding doesn't require an inflated target like I showed you in the ROAS example in the previous slide because your break-even point will always be 100% and everything above 100% is profitable. Why 100%? Well, you're essentially uploading your gross profit based on all of the order expenses. If you then deduct your Google Ads acquisition costs, your spend levels, then it should equal zero in terms of, well, net profit. Hence, 100% equals your break-even point. So it's really easy to analyze and to monitor your results and also to feed the system towards a particular profitability level. For example, a 150% POAS where your profitability will be 50%, so to say. So POAS also considers the total order margin and not the margin of the product that has been clicked on. So even if the customer buys something else, instead of the product that was clicked on through your product listing ad, for example, the POAS will still remain correct because the order margin and the order gross profit is feedback to the system and allocated to the initial click. So like I said, POAS includes all costs from your product cost or cost of goods sold to shipping fees, payment processing fees for different payment providers with different fixed and percentage fee costs, packaging and handling fees, and also discounts if people use, for example, discount codes in the checkout. So key benefits of using POAS is that your break-even point is always 100%. It's also really easy to calculate your profitability inside of Google Ads. For example, if you see a 140 POAS, that means that you have a 40% gross profit efficiency level. It includes all order-related expenses and therefore it is close to 100% transparent. Obviously, you cannot account for all costs. In theory, you could, but most of the time you're going to stick to the cost of goods sold and all of the order level expenses. For example, for ordering the product, recurring costs, et cetera, aren't always included, but it depends on how far you want to go, obviously you still have to account for that and think along about that, but that's for a different discussion. So how do we enable profit tracking? So there are essentially two profit tracking implementation methods. You can either choose for a custom solution where it requires some technical skills and also some developer resources and also the proper data in order to feed the system with the cost of goods sold on the item ID level, for example, in order to build this. And also you have to take into consideration that you're not done when it's fully built. Your solution that is custom still requires maintenance and also optimization, but it can be done. It can be done through Google tech manager by creating a different conversion value variable based on your, well, cost of goods sold variables. So it is in fact possible, but it is quite hard and it is time consuming. So our recommended solution over here is to go for a plug and play solution, which is a profit metrics setup. And we like to use profit metrics. There are also other tools out there that do similar things. But from my experience, from my clients, ProfiMetrics works like a charm. And I think also their transaction-based, usage-based pricing is really, really fair, where the potential uplift is way, way, way much higher than the fees it costs you to, well, to pay for the solution. ProfiMetrics also has a quick integration. It costs you, well, 30 minutes to set up. If you have like a default, a popular e-commerce platform like Shopify, Lightspeed, or Magento, really easy to set up. And it's always up to date with the latest conversion tracking features. So it also factors in advanced stuff like new first return of customer data. It also factors in server side tagging. It also comes with the conversion booster that we've also discussed about in the conversion tracking fundamentals course. So there's a lot of pros when selecting a plug and play solution, but you're free to choose whatever you want of course you always want to measure both revenue and profit as separate conversion actions in your google ads account why because this provides a crucial insight into how your revenue versus profit metrics compare it also serves as a fallback system for whatever reason your profit conversion actions break never happened to me but it might be it might happen so it's always good to have like a backup conversion action and it also allows you for safely experimenting a profit-based optimization without disrupting performance so if you are going to transition from ROAS to POAS by tracking both the revenue and profit into separate conversion actions you can then easily transition to POAS and preventing well breaking stuff so to say and this is what I mean so over here you can see two examples this one on top where you can see an oct revenue import and oct gross profit import giving me the same amount of conversions but with different conversion values as you can see profitability is close to 50 over here nice profit margins so i've got both to work with which is really nice as you can see gross profit is made primary as an action optimization my revenue is made secondary but I can always use this as a backup or maybe I want to transition back to revenue for whatever reason and over here you can see the profit metrics conversion actions gross profit also made primary and the revenue conversion actions also tracking them over here and they have been made secondary meaning I'm observing these metrics so make sure to always track them both so if you are convinced about profit tracking and you might consider it you are obviously thinking about how to switch from ROAS to POAS well there are several different methods you can either go for a hard switch and what you see over here is more like a hard kind of aggressive switch from ROAS to POAS but with guardrails so to say and I'm going to explain you in a bit you can also do it in a more safe way and that transition takes longer in terms of transition from ROAS to POAS, but it is a little bit more safer than this hard switch, so to say. If you want to do it the safer way where it takes a little bit longer than, well, this particular switch, then I would highly recommend reaching out to Profitmetrics because they can help you with switching from ROAS to POAS. They have active support helping you out when, well, when doing that. So I would highly consider reaching out to them when you are considering that. But over here, I'm going to tell you how I like to do things and it is a little bit more aggressive, but if you have the right guardrails, it's all fine, fine and fine and well. So how does it work? Well, at first you have to implement profit tracking where you want to use a tool like Profitmetrics or create your own profit tracking solution. You want to create a profit conversion action inside of your account and you want to gather a lot of data. You want to gather at least 100 conversions at the conversion level to have a viable data foundation to know your average ROAS, sorry, your average POAS, because you need your average POAS in order to start experimenting and transitioning from ROAS to POAS without messing with the system too much. then if you want to transition and you've gathered a lot of data you can essentially make both of your conversion actions primary where you have a primary revenue conversion action and a primary gross profit conversion action if you don't apply campaign specific goals at this very moment you're going to track double the conversions and that's not what you want so if you are going to make this switch in order to experiment with it make sure to to select campaign specific goals so you're optimizing for only the the revenue based conversion actions that have been inside of your account from that moment on so keep that in mind and if you want to experiment and you want to create a profit tracking experiment then within that particular experiment you select a different campaign specific goal pointing towards your primarily made gross profit conversion actions and that leads to well having both of the conversions and the conversion value revenue and profit in your main conversion columns whereas your regular campaigns will still focus on the revenue only metrics and in your experiment where you're selecting a different campaign specific goal over there you're referring to your newly created profit related goal so then based on the average poas that you've collected within the campaign you want to run the experiment in you want to well select your target poas based on the average poas in your revenue based original campaign so to say so that's why it's so important to have this solid data foundation because if you don't gather some data first you don't know your average poas and therefore you don't know what a fair target POAS is for your experiment so to say and then you want to run the test so here are the guardrails if you want to do it this way you want to always cap your daily budget in your in your experiment so let's say your daily budget is 1000 euro and on average you've been spending 250 euro make sure that you're capping your daily budgets around your average daily spend of the last couple of weeks around that 250 euro hypothetically because if you're going to switch from ROAS to POAS even an experiment Google is going to to act in a way that you're going to be decreasing your ROAS meaning Google is going to to to pick that up as if you are going to want to bid more aggressively where they do not fully understand that that is your, well, profit and your profit on ad spend newly created conversion action. They're simply too dumb in order to fully understand that. So therefore your bids are starting to skyrocket and because you're starting to bid more aggressively, your cost is also going to skyrocket. So therefore in your experiment or when you're making the switch without an experiment, make sure to cap your budgets, make sure to cap your max CPCs based on the averages that you've spent by looking at the average CPC of your best converting keywords. So obviously give it a little bit room for the peaks and the, well, the outliers, so to say, but you should cap it to prevent the system from bidding too aggressively. So this is how I like to approach the switch. But once again, this is relatively aggressive and it can also be, and it can also result in quite some fluctuations. So according to your data and according to your conversion volume going through your account, you might want to go for this approach or the safer approach. And the safer approach can be set up together with, well, profit metrics like I said. So over here, you can see, well, some fluctuations of an experiment or not an experiment, a transition I did back in 2022 from ROAS to POAS. And you can see after September, in October, when I started making my profit tracking primary instead of secondary, our CPC skyrocketed for, well, particular in October, that led to lower efficiencies, also lower profitability levels, a relatively low POAS, but then the month thereafter, it all reverted. And as you can see, the profitability basically restored and we made the switch successfully from ROAS to POAS. But you need to be aware of fluctuations when doing this, because it isn't going to happen without any trouble, so to say. So key takeaways of this lesson, revenue and high ROAS do not always guarantee profitability. A high ROAS might look great, but it doesn't tell you anything without proper context. Using an average ROAS for your ROAS targets kills your growth potential because you have to take into consideration the lower margin products and that is making your target ROAS less aggressive missing out on growth potential. POAS simplifies optimization with a 100% level as a break-even level. It is also really easy to well see your profitability levels because a 200% average POAS basically means that you are making a 100% gross profit on your Google Ads campaigns. A POAS of 150% means that you're making a 50% profit, et cetera, et cetera, relatively simple concept to understand. It's a best practice to track both revenue and profit separately in different conversion actions. And if you want to transition gradually, then I would personally, well, run an experiment on maybe a couple of campaigns in order to see how your new campaigns are going to react to profit tracking and do it in a relatively safe way by capping your budgets, by even capping your max CPCs through portfolio-based strategies and then, well, let it run. So that's it. I hope to see you in the next lesson and I hope you found this useful.
