# How to determine your ROAS Target

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** bids-budgets-mastery
- **Section:** Setting efficiency targets
- **Duration:** 12:27
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

So let's say you are a e-com advertiser and you decided that the target ROAS is going to be your best strategy of choice in order to optimize towards your goals, where you want to maximize your conversion value within a particular efficiency target, which is going to be your target ROAS. Well, in that case, you simply need to do some calculations as well, just like the Legion example, in order to know your break-even ROAS and your target ROAS. so things can become really complex real soon when it comes down to e-commerce you can include a lot of different variables and it really depends on how advanced you are going to do this what data points you have and also if you're going to optimize for revenue or profit so over here you can see three types of different calculation methods we have a really basic one where you're Also, we're only going to look at the profit margin and the profit to acquisition ratio. We have an intermediate one where you're going to include order expenses, but not return related costs. And then we have a really advanced one where you're going to include order expenses and also return related costs. So this is going to be really advanced. This is going to be really simple. And it comes down to your level of matureness and the data points at hand. It also comes down to, like I said already, if you are having to calculate this at front and you're optimizing for revenue, or if you're utilizing a profit-based bidding strategy and your webshop is already accounting for all of these expenses and that is being calculated automatically. So in this example, I want to address the intermediate example, because I think if you understand this correctly you're also going to understand the basic calculation method and also the advanced calculation method the only difference within the advanced calculation method is that we're also going to include the return rate over here so how many of the orders are going to get returned and what is going to be the resale rate of your returns because not all of the returns are going to be resulting in resellable products so in this case 10 is going to well be destroyed for example and that's going to affect your effective margin at the end but you can see all of the calculations and all of the nodes over here as well so you can properly understand how this is going to be calculated then let me quickly hide these columns and also these ones so we can start optimizing for this example there we go so now we see the intermediate calculation method when it comes down to calculating your break-even ROAS and your target ROAS. As you can see, these are the two outputs that are going to be given. What we need to understand at first is the average profit margin of your particular products. So depending on your product range, you might have to do this manual calculation a lot of different times because you might be selling 50 different categories from toys all the way to sunscreen all the way to underwear I don't know and all of those different categories have different average profit margins and you need to know what the average profit margin is going to be for those categories in order to come up with a good break-even ROAS point and also a solid ROAS target for those categories, because if you're going to translate this to a Google Ads setup, you're most likely to have different search campaigns, for example, per category with different ROAS targets in order to account for the different ROAS, sorry, the different profit margins. So that's why you need to be really specific over here. If you have one product category with 10 different products, you can make a really simple calculation and do this only once based on the average profit margin of that particular one product category. So the more complex your product category, the more complex your product lineup, the more you need to calculate and the more complex this is going to be. One note to make over there, we are going to address profit tracking as well, optimize for profit by utilizing POAS. So if you have a really complex product lineup with thousands of different products with 50 plus different product categories consider utilizing profit tracking and utilizing boas because boas is going to look at the order specific profit margin by also incorporating the products that have been sold within that particular order so you're actually looking at the real profit margins of the products being sold so what we're going to do here is relatively old school where we're going to set an arbitrary breakeven ROAS based on the different product categories and the averages that we need to work with. So it is, in my opinion, slightly arbitrary and therefore not really specific. But if you cannot do profit tracking, this might be the best calculation method you have at hand. So without further ado, let's quickly jump into this calculation so let's say we have a profit margin of 30 a profit margin of 30 is going to equal a relatively well okay break even row s the break even rows is a really simple calculation it is simply one divided by your effective margin so the effective margin is going to be 23.5% over here because we have a lot of different expenses we need to account for as well. I'm going to touch on that right now. So the order expenses are expenses that are forgotten about a lot of e-commerce advertisers that are going to negatively affect your actual profit margin. So we have a thing called your profit margin, which is going to be basically your cost of goods sold. But when you are basically selling a product and a customer makes a transaction you also need to account for the shipping cost the fulfillment cost and also the payment cost so these are percentages of the revenue so let's say the shipping cost is a five percent of revenue so let's say on average let's say you have an average order value of 100 euros then a five percent shipping cost of Revenue equals five euros that you are going to pay, have to pay in order to account for shipping. Then you also might have fulfillment costs. Maybe you're working with a fulfillment supplier. Well, in that case, you might need to account for 1% additional cost, fulfillment cost. If you have a average order value of 100 euro, that equals one euro in additional spent. And then you also have payment fees, depending on the payment providers that you use. over here you you need to use and you need to work with an average but if you are doing profit tracking once again you can become way more specific and you can also factor in the payment method of the payment method that has been chosen by the customer because sometimes a credit card has a really much higher payment fee than for example a simple bank transfer so to say so over here we need to work with averages but if you're doing profit tracking then you can become really really specific so let's say the payment fee is a 0.5 percent over here that equals a total order expense of 6.5 percent of the total revenue so once again let's say we have a 100 euro revenue then we have a total order expense of 6 euro 50 cents meaning this is going to negatively affect our effective margin. And the effective margin is essentially your profit margin based on your cost of goods sold minus your total order expenses. So 30% minus 6.5% equals 23.5%. Based on that effective margin, you're going to have a break-even ROAS, which is once again, one divided by your effective margin. Really simple calculation. So the higher your effective margin, meaning the higher your profit margin, the less your order expenses are, the lower your break-even row is going to be. So the better the unit economics of your e-commerce advertiser, for example, your client, the more easy it is to get traction and to bid more aggressively while still being efficient. So let me give you an example. Let's say your average profit margin is 50% instead of 30%. Just look at the effective margin and look at the break-even ROAS over here and also how that translates to your target ROAS. So I'm going to change it from 30 to 50 right now. Effective margin is going to be 43.5% and my break-even ROAS is going to be 230% over here. So I cannot fall below this ROAS in this particular instance, because if I would, I would simply lose out on money out of money so therefore it is really important to know your profit margins it is really important to understand your order expenses and therefore your effective margins in order to come up with your break-even ROAS because you can go as low as this ROAS to not lose money but obviously you would like to make some money and therefore we have the profit to acquisition ratio. So let's say 50% of the profit, you would like to reinvest into Google Ads in order to acquire new transactions and you want to acquire new customers. Well, in that case, your target ROAS is going to be double of your breakeven ROAS because 50% of your profit is going to be profit and 50% is going to result in acquisition. So the more you're you you want to invest in acquisition so the more profit you would like to reinvest the lower your target rose is going to be and the more closer it is going to be towards your break-even level so let's say i added this to 75 instead of 50 you will see that your target rose is going to be way lower than it was when it was 50 so the more you're likely willing to reinvest, the less profit you're going to make, the less efficient you're going to be, but the more growth you're more likely to have and to achieve. So what is a good profit to acquisition ratio? Well, that really depends on your Google Ads goals. Some advertisers want to be really aggressive. They want to bring in a lot of first-time customers in the hope that they are going to make money in the long run by looking at the full customer lifetime value, but some might want to be relatively profitable starting from the first order. So it all trickles down and it all comes down to your Google Ads goals once again. So in the next video, I'm going to show you how you can essentially forecast whether you are able to hit your growth goals that you have decided upon when determining your Google ads goals coming from your overarching business goals and what your profit acquisition ratio needs to be in order to hit those growth goals without losing out on money because you still also need to have efficiency goals and it's a fine balance between the two so just like lead gen you can see or you will see that the better the unit economics of your customer, the more easy it is, the easier it is to hit your target ROAS over here and to not fall below your break-even ROAS.
