# Value-Based Bidding VBB for Lead Gen

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** bids-budgets-mastery
- **Section:** Setting efficiency targets
- **Duration:** 18:49
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

So if you're running lead gen campaigns, then optimizing for real business outcome, real business results is probably one of the most powerful things you can do bidding wise. So in this lesson, we're going to be diving deeper into that particular concept. You're going to learn why optimizing for lead volume alone isn't enough, how to optimize for lead quality and valuable sales, and also how to experiment with value-based bidding for your lead gen campaigns. so it is important to know that lead volume doesn't equal business success because not all leads are created equal some leads never convert some leads aren't qualified at all some deals are worth more to you than others and some customers that basically came from a closed deal have a higher lifetime value than others and you might want to bid accordingly based on that factor as well. So over here, let's illustrate that concept real quick and ask yourself the question, should all of these leads be valued the same way? So let's say we have generated 100 leads. From those 100 leads, we have 20 marketing qualified leads, 20 MQLs. So that is a lead to MQL rate of, well, 20%. From there, we have only 10 sales qualified leads, 10 SQLs. So we have a 50% success rate from MQL to SQL. From there, we have another 50% success rate from SQL to closed deals, where we only have five closed deals that resulted from those 100 leads generated. And those deal sizes vary a lot from 5k in revenue all the way up to 25k in revenue so the question is should all of these leads be valued in the same way well i don't think so because ideally you want to start looking at your closed deals and also on the deal values and obviously you want to have more of these you want to have more closed deals instead of more leads and you also want to optimize for the highest possible deal value so in order to do that we have to start with oct you have to have your conversion tracking in order to start tracking your off-site conversions so to say so over here we are tracking your online your on-site conversions by by tracking your form submits by tracking incoming calls but from that step this is basically going to be offline which is going to be behind scenes. But by incorporating offline conversion tracking, you can start measuring these. You can start measuring your close deals. You can start measuring your deal value per unique deal. Based on that, you can start calculating your average deal value. If you're also tracking your lead to sale rates, and that is something you have to do as a lead specialist or lead an advertiser, you can also calculate your average value per qualified lead, your average value per lead because you can calculate backwards so to say. So before you're going to start bidding on real business results you need to have your offline conversion tracking in check. You can check out our OCT related videos in our conversion tracking fundamentals module if you want to learn more about that or want to recap but that's something you have to have in place in order to do this. So what you want to do is to always upload deal specific conversion values for your closed deal conversion actions for auto conversion actions in your sales funnel the best practice is to assign an average conversion value inside of google ads which is basically just going to be a static average conversion value based on the success rates and based on the average deal value and you can easily calculate them backwards using our template that we have addressed in the target calculator template so what you want to do is you want to regularly update your average deal values of your well other conversion actions inside of google ads because obviously your average deal value is going to vary based on the real deal values and also your lead to sale rates are also going to be varying from month to month so you need to recalculate these in order to have a proper understanding of for example your break even levels the real average value per conversion journey step so make sure to do that regularly so optimizing for lead quality or close deals within a target cpa is a great first step and a lot of us have been doing that for a while or might be still doing that where you're basically uploading your close deals and based on those close deals you can then insert a particular target CPA, which is in this case going to be a target customer acquisition cost based on the average value of your customers. And then also based on your profit margins and your Google ads calls. But the problem is, or not the problem is, the challenge is these values are differing a lot. And what you want to be doing is you want to ideally transition from an arbitrary target cpa we're going to set a target for acquiring new customers so to say from basically from that all the way to bidding according to the unique deal values because what you want to be doing is you want to ideally optimize for real business value so over here you can see a couple of custom columns that i've created based on a couple of offline conversion tracking offline conversion actions inside of my account where I'm tracking the closed deals and I'm also tracking the gross profit and the gross profit per closed deal well that differs a lot and if I'm just going to optimize for a particular closed deal CPA a particular customer acquisition cost in this case then I'm not going to account for the different gross profits or the different revenues per closed deal and ideally this is what we want because not all leads are created equal like we mentioned. And this is where we can consider implementing value-based bidding. So what is value-based bidding? Well, value-based bidding lets you optimize your bids for auctions that are predicted to deliver higher conversion values within a optional target ROAS. So within a value-based bidding strategy, you're essentially going to utilize smart bidding, which is going to be a maximized conversion value strategy or a target ROAS strategy to optimize for maximum conversion value, so maximum deal value within your budget, so to say. And you're basically going to utilize smart bidding and machine learning in order to predict the most valuable auctions and bid accordingly in order to optimize for real business outcome instead of just leads or instead of just customers without looking at the potential value of those. So like I said, there are two main value-based bidding strategies. You either have maximized conversion value where you're going to optimize for conversion value with no FSC targets or without a ROAS target where your bids are going to be optimized to achieve maximum conversion value within your daily budget. Or you could also optimize for maximized conversion value with an optional ROAS target, which is going to be a target ROAS strategy where your bids are being optimized to maximize conversion value, whether that is your revenue, whether that is your gross profit based on the values you're importing within your efficiency target, which is your target ROAS. So choosing the right BIS strategy really depends on the maturity of your campaign based on the conversion value, based on your business goals and more. So if you cannot decide between these two, make sure to also look at the decision trees that we have created for you in order to come up with the appropriate strategy for you. So then the follow-up question, how do you determine your target ROAS? so we've also created a calculator template that lets you insert your average deal value based on your closed deals could be your revenue could be your gross profit could be your customer lifetime value depending on what metric you want to work with you can also insert your profit margin over here in order to calculate the gross profit and also your break-even levels and you can insert your acquisition investment ratios your profit to acquisition ratio so to say plus your lead conversion rates according to the amount of steps you have inside of your lead to sale journey so if you have a simple two-step lead to sale journey you have one step from lead to close deal so the only thing you need to do is to come up with your lead to close deal rate how many of your leads are resulting in a close deal if your lead to sale journey is more extensive you have a three-step or maybe a four-step, for example, lead to MQL, to SQL, to closed deal, you need to also get the other lead conversion rates in order to come up with the appropriate break-even levels and targets. So your target ROAS is essentially calculated based on your break-even ROAS. That is basically looking at your profit margin and how much you're willing to spend on acquisition to hit your growth targets whether that is your primary or secondary goal and we went over that inside of the well a goal setting module but also in the how to validate your CPA and ROAS target lesson within this module so if this isn't clear to you yet I would highly recommend you to re-watch those lessons and start experimenting with these calculations as well so based on these calculations we can see the brick even ROAS and also the target ROAS that you want to achieve. So if you currently run a target CPA strategy and want to give value-based bidding a go by, for example, experimenting with target ROAS, you need to run a fair experiment. So if you want to run a fair experiment, you want to have only one variable in your campaign experiment, which is going to be your bid strategy and your bid strategy only. Because if you're going to make other changes to your experiment, then you cannot compare Apple to Apple. You also want to incorporate the same conversion action for your original campaign and your experiment so what you want to be doing you want to be optimizing for well closed deals for example in your target cpa original campaign you might already be optimizing for closed deals within a particular target cpa but since you are uploading or you might have been uploading the real dynamic closed deal values for that same conversion action closed deals you will also start populating your conversion value column. And then in your experiment arm, you can then utilize your target ROAS strategy in order to look for the, well, a particular ROAS based on the conversion value within that same conversion action, so to say. And then you want to split evenly and you want to create a 50-50 campaign split. That is the most obvious thing to do. Obviously in your experiment arm, you want to set a fair ROAS target that should be at or below the average ROAS that your target CPA campaign, your original CPA campaign has historically achieved in the past four weeks. So you want to look at a relatively, well, recent window, so to say, but take into consideration your conversion lag. So if you have a really long conversion lag, take that into consideration as well but yeah that will also impact your experiment arm so be aware of that then based on the average ROAS you can then set your target ROAS you can start applying and running your experiment where you want to at least run the experiment for 30 days or more uninterruptedly without making too much changes the only change that you can make is to maybe change your ROAS target based on the average ROAS in your target CPA original campaign to have a fair test. And you want to aim for a statistical significance of more than 80% in order to see if your experiment, which is your target ROAS, value-based bidding strategy, experiment is outperforming your original campaign in terms of conversion value. Then lastly, you want to evaluate your results in a fair way where you want to exclude the learning period and the ramp-up period. So the first one or two weeks and also the conversion lag which is going to be depending on your conversion lag in your conversion cycle like we discussed in this module as well and based on that you can then evaluate your results in a filtered way. So when it comes down to evaluating your results comparing your target CPA campaign with your target ROAS campaign for example you need to choose the right success metric for value-based bidding. So you want to focus on conversion value as your primary success metric because in a value-based bidding experiment the trial arm your experiment is going to maximize your conversion value with an optimal optional target ROAS and that is basically going to be going to be optimizing for a higher conversion value because you're optimizing for a higher deal value at your desired ROAS target or even better So since your value-based bidding experiment is optimizing for the same target ROAS as your average ROAS in your original target CPA experiment, you're going to optimize for the same efficiency, so to say. But because you're optimizing for conversion value and you're also giving smart bidding those signals, it should lead to more conversion value for the same efficiency target, so to say. so that's what you want to look for so over here you can see a test that i did for my biggest client together with google and this test failed after doing it well two previous times as well because over here what what went wrong was essentially that the average roas in our original target cpa campaigns was eventually higher than in our experiment arms so over here can see the base campaign and then the experiment campaign in the second row here you can see the different campaigns that we ran an experiment for you can see that the average ROAS was simply higher in most of the original campaigns because our customer lifetime value that was being imported basically increased so even though we we looked at the average ROAS of the past four weeks when deciding what target ROAS we had to optimize for within our experiment the average ROAS of the target CPA campaign started to increase, meaning that essentially when comparing these results, our experiments were in fact, in most cases, resulting in more conversion value, as you can see. So these results in more conversion value in four out of six times. Also in more conversions in two out of six times, but conversions isn't going to be your success metric. Conversion value is because that's what you're optimizing for. But this is quite logical because this particular ROAS target was just more aggressive than our CPA target original campaigns. So this was basically an unfair test. So we had to do it again afterwards. And that's why it's important to keep a close eye on the averages and also your targets and adjust if you feel the need to, in order to have a proper, well, solid and also fair test, so to say. so this is just an example to highlight that not all of the tests can go go well some fail and it's important to test test test in order to well have a fair test and in order to to properly test target cpa versus value-based bidding target ROAS or maximize conversion value so like i said sometimes it may be good sometimes maybe shit depending on well your account depending on how the test was set up but ideally it should outperform your target cpa setup and most of the time it does but not always because sometimes i do still have accounts running on a target cpa because it simply outperforms value-based bidding for whatever reason even though it might might make sense to run a value-based bidding strategy sometimes target cpa simply outperforms so what i want to say with that is to always test and to keep testing so like i said during your value-based bidding experiments make sure to keep an eye on your average ROAS in your control arm your original campaigns if the average ROAS starts to deviate from the target ROAS in your experiments arm then the test will become unfair and comparing results will become more difficult and almost impossible because if the average ROAS in your experiment arm is lower than the ROAS in your control arm it is obvious it is obvious that it's going to drive more conversion value because it simply is going to bid more aggressively. So value-based bidding might not always outperform. In most cases, keep optimizing for your lowest funnel. Sorry, in those cases, you want to keep optimizing for your lowest funnel conversion actions with a target CPA while obviously respecting your minimum conversion volume thresholds. So like I said, value-based bidding doesn't always work, but if it works, it outperforms like crazy. It tends to outperform like crazy. If it doesn't work, keep optimizing for a target CPA, aiming for your lowest possible conversion action in your lead to sale conversion journey, so to say. So key takeaways over here, value-based bidding optimizes for real business results. So real business value and not just leads. Proper value assignment is crucial when using value-based bidding. So make sure to upload the real Unic deal specific values when doing this, don't work with averages, only work with averages when you're calculating backwards in your previous lead to sale journey steps. And you always want to test, iterate, and make conclusions based on your experiment data. So if for whatever reason your campaign fails, like the campaign experiment I just showed you because it was unfair, well, do it again and make sure it is fair. If it is fair and it simply not outperforms, well, then target CPA might be a better choice and nothing is wrong with that, but you at least tested it. And if it does outperform, well, good for you. Then you're going to start optimizing for real business value. And you're also giving smart bidding the information it needs in order to do so. So with that, I would like to end the lesson. I hope you found it useful and I hope to see you in the next one.
