# How to determine your CPA Target

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** bids-budgets-mastery
- **Section:** Setting efficiency targets
- **Duration:** 17:59
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

So in this video, I would like to address how you can calculate your break-even CPAs and also your target CPAs. So let's say based on the decision tree flowchart, you came to the conclusion that you need a target CPA bid strategy in order to optimize towards your Google Ads calls. Well, then the next logical question is going to be, what are your break-even CPAs and what does your target CPA need to be in order to hit your Google Ads calls? so in order to properly to properly have an answer to those questions you need to understand the unit economics of your stakeholder for example your customer and you need to understand the google ads goals because without unit economics understanding and without having google ads goals you are essentially going to be aimless and this isn't going to work at all and you're going to have a hard time determining your break-even points and also your targets so make sure you know about the unit economics of your customer or stakeholder and you know about the google ads goals by this point so what you see over here are three different calculation methods depending on the lead to sale journey we've got a really simple lead to sale journey where you either have a lead or a closed deal then we have a intermediate lead to sale journey where we have a qualifier in between so we have a lead to a qualified lead to a closed deal and then we have a more complex one that is often used by B2B businesses, where you're going to have a lead, a marketing qualified lead, MQL, or a sales qualified lead, an SQL, and then a closed deal. So essentially four steps. The more complex your lead to sales journey, the more steps you essentially have, and the more you need to understand about your lead conversion rates from lead to MQL, from MQL to SQL, from SQL to close deal and all those lead conversion rates are going to impact the break even points and also the CPA targets of those steps depending on the primary conversion action within your account so these calculation methods are consisting of inputs and outputs so the green fields you see over here are inputs and the yellow fields you see are outputs so the green fields you can essentially enter your calculation in your your value in and then your outputs will automatically be calculated so let's say i'm adjusting these you can see that the yellow outputs are going to be affected so that's a simple calculation i've made over here depending on your inputs so in this example i want to quickly give you an example of how this actually works and how you can use these calculation methods in order to come up with your breakeven points and your cpa targets so as this is a lead gen example i'm going to stick to cpas for now but you can also calculate your breakeven row as and your target row as a legion advertiser if you would like to incorporate value-based bidding but that's a different case for now and we're going to address that in a future video instead of the lead specialization course so let's get rid of two of the calculation methods real quick so we have a little bit less noise and then basically start the calculation so over here we can see a three-step lead to sale journey and let me zoom in a bit so it's a bit more clear for you to follow along so over here we have a three lead to sale journey step from lead to qualified lead to closed deal so the first thing that we want to know from our from our customer is essentially what is the average deal value so the average deal value could be the average deal value of the first order if you would like to optimize for the first order average deal value but you could also incorporate the complete customer lifetime value and that completely is up to you and how you would like to approach your your google ads bidding and also how you would like to approach your google ads goals so let's say i am a driving school in that case i do not really have returning customers because if they have their driving license i think i'm not seeing them anymore as a future customer so there's not really a high custom lifetime value But if you're selling services like I am as a Google Ads specialist, you might have a really high customer lifetime value that you also want to account for. So if you only are optimizing for an average deal value for, for example, the first time work that you need to do in order to restructure a Google Ads account, and you're not taking into consideration the monthly recurring revenue, then you're essentially missing out on the full picture. And that's going to trickle down into your break-even CPAs and also your target CPAs. So it's depending on your customer, but also how you would like to approach things. If you want to go for the first order, average deal value, or the full complete customer lifetime values over here. So that's the first note I want to make over here. So in this example, I'm just going to do, and I'm just going to pretend that I'm a driving school over here. And my average deal value is going to be 2,500 euros. So let's say on average, when I sell a driving lessons package, on average, it's going to be worth 2,500 euros in revenue. Then you need to determine your profit margin. So based on the actual data from your stakeholder, you essentially need to calculate your average gross profit over here. So let's say I have a 50% gross profit margin, then my average gross profit from every single deal essentially equals 1250 euros 50 of 2500 euros and then you can immediately see that that is also going to be your break-even closed deal cpa basically your break-even customer acquisition cost because you cannot spend more than obviously your gross profit because if you do you're going to lose money. So this is going to be your break-even point when it comes down to customer acquisition cost. If you basically go above this, you're losing out on money. If you're hitting this €1,250, then you're essentially not making any money. Therefore, it's going to be your break-even point. So then we're going to touch on the profit to acquisition ratio in a bit. First, let me head over to the actual lead conversion rates so depending on your lead to sale journey you need to come up with the actual lead conversion rates so the more simple your lead to sale journey is the more easy it is to to come up with these numbers the more complex your lead to sale journey the more digging you need to do in order to come up with the correct averages so to say so let's say I have a three-step lead to sale journey I have a lead that lead can become a qualified lead or not and the qualified lead can become a closed deal or not let's say 25% of my leads are going to result in being qualified leads meaning one out of four leads will become a qualified lead that means the other way around that 75% of all of my leads are simply not becoming qualified. And therefore those are missed opportunities that you are essentially paying for. So that trickles down to your breakeven calculations. So let's say from that qualified lead, 50% is going to result in a close deal. So one out of two qualified leads are going to accept my offer of, for example, a driving lesson package of on average 2,500 euros. Well, that is going to trickle down to what your breakeven CPA is going to be for your qualified lead and also what your breakeven CPA is going to be for a lead. So the higher your lead conversion rates, the better your customer or a stakeholder is at their sales job, the more easy it is for you to bid more aggressively when it comes down to Google Ads. Just watch. So let's say I'm able to increase the lead to qualified lead rate with 100%. So I'm going to increase it from 25% to 50%. Watch what happens to my break-even levels over here. It's going to double. So therefore, my break-even CPA is going to be way more way higher being able to bid way more aggressively if my lead to qualified lead rate over here is really poor let's say it's only 10 i'm going to have a really hard time optimizing for for this particular break even point and it's really simple to go above that since your lead to qualified lead rates are so relatively low so therefore it really it's really important to understand the impact of your lead conversion rates to your breakeven levels and from your breakeven levels to your target levels. So let's put this back to 25% again. So if you start back from, if you calculate backwards from your customer acquisition cost, that is going to equal to your gross profit, then that is going to equal to €1,250, your qualified lead breakeven cpa is going to be 625 euros and your raw lead breakeven cpa is going to be 156 euros then you have your targets over here and your targets are essentially based on your breakeven levels and also your profit to acquisition ratio and this is going to be a really really important variable that you as a google s specialist can turn on which is going to be a range from one to 100%. So this basically tells you how much of your profit you're willing to reinvest or invest in acquisition. So let's say I'm putting this to 100%. That means that 100% of my profit is going to be reinvested to acquisition, meaning my target CPAs are going to If I would like to make some money as a business, and I would also would like to have some margin, then you might want to start with a profit to acquisition ratio of 50%, meaning 50% of the profit is going to be profit, and 50% of the profit is going to be reinvested into Google Ads, ad spend, in order to acquire new customers. so if you do the math real quick you will see that that will result in 50% of your break-even CPAs so if you want to make 50% profit then looking at your break-even close deal CPA of 1250 euros then your target CPA for optimized for a close deal will be half of that that will that will equal 625 euros the same goes for all the other the other well leads to conversion events as well for example the qualified lead over here will be half of your break-even target or break-even point your raw lead level will be well as will be higher than your raw lead cpa target over here because you want to aim for 50% profit. So how do you determine the profit to acquisition ratio? Well, that's a very good question. And it really relies on your Google Ads goals. So this is going to be a variable that you can basically adjust based on the growth targets that you need to hit and the efficiency targets that you also aim for. So the more efficiency, the more efficient you want to be, the less profit you want to reinvest into Google Ads. So let's say I'm putting this to 10% once again. So the more profit I'm going to make, obviously, but the lower my targets are going to be. And the lower my CPA targets are going to be, the more I'm going to miss out on volume, conversion volume, and also the other way around. So the higher this is going to be, let's put this to 90%, the more aggressive my CPA targets are going to be in the end, but the less profit I'm able to make. So it is a fine balance between growth and efficiency. So it all comes back to what you're trying to achieve as a Google Ads advertiser and what your Google Ads goals are in order to hit your overarching business goals, so to say. And this is going to be really dependent on the goals you are going to be looking for and what is also achievable and realistic to achieve. So in order to give you some more examples of this particular case and this particular example and how the profit to acquisition ratio works and how you can validate whether or not your CPA target is high enough or maybe too low, I also created a extra lesson called how to validate your CPA or ROAS targets that you can find in this module as well. And that is going to tell you how you need to basically use this variable in order to come up with a proper target. But you have to understand that the better the unit economics of your customer, so the higher the average deal value and the higher the profit margin, the more room there will be in terms of break-even levels and also your targets. So let me finish off by basically doubling the average deal value. So let's say my customer is able to double the revenue because of upsells, cross-sells, that's going to trickle down into the calculation. So let's double this. So the average deal value went from 2,500 euros to 5,000 euros. See what this did with your break-even levels and also your target cpas it basically doubled as well so now you can spend twice as much in your google ads campaigns in order to to to to drive break even so to say and from that point if you want to reinvest 50 of your profit to acquisition you have a times two as high target cpa as in the previous situation as well so let me put this back to 2500 euro and watch how this impact your targets. So the better the unit economics, the better your break-even points, the better your targets are going to be, the more competitive they're going to be. And also the more likely it is that you can have a relatively low profit to acquisition ratio leading to more profits instead of stretching your profit to acquisition ratio towards 100% because otherwise your CPA targets might not be aggressive enough. So this is what happens frequently. So let's say you have poor unit economics. So you only have a average deal value of 1500 Euro. Let's see how this trickles down in your breakeven levels. So your breakeven CPAs are much lower. And in order to bid more competitively, you might need to increase your profit acquisition ratio from 50% to 75%. Well, in that case, your CPA targets might still be competitive and you might still be able to get a lot of close deals from google ads but since your unit economics are so poor and you have to reinvest a lot of your profits back to google ads in order to drive enough volume to hit your growth goals you're going to have a harder time so this is how everything trickles down from your unit economics all the way from your break-even levels all the to your targets and in the next lesson not the next lesson because in the next lesson i'm going to touch down on e-commerce but in the lesson thereafter i'm going to show you how to use this value in a proper way to to understand how it affects your google ads goals your your growth goals and your fishing goals and what your profit acquisition ratio need to be in order to well to optimize for that so i hope this somewhat makes sense you have to go through this a couple of times in order to fully grasp the concept but this is in the in the basic way how you are going to calculate your break even levels and also how you're going to calculate your target cpas you need to start with actual numbers you need to know your lethal conversion rates and then the output is going to be relatively simple this needs to be cross-checked with your uh actual google ads efficiency goal it needs to be cross-checked inside of the performance planner for example to see if you're able to hit your growth volumes with these target cpas depending on what you what you optimize for but that's a next step and And that's what we're going to touch on in a bit. So I hope to see you in the next video.
