# How to validate your CPA or ROAS targets

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** bids-budgets-mastery
- **Section:** Setting efficiency targets
- **Duration:** 29:27
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

All right, so in this video, we're going to touch on how to validate your CPA and ROAS targets. In this lesson, you will learn how to validate if your efficiency targets align with your growth goals, whether your growth goal is a primary goal or a secondary goal. And if it's a secondary goal, you're going to use your growth goals as guardrails, so to say. How to use your profit to acquisition ratio in order to find the perfect balance between what you need to reinvest to Google ads in acquisition in order to hit your growth targets and how to use forecasting tools for validation purposes in order to see if you're using the right officiate targets. So before we dive in, I want to quickly address the officiate paradox, because there are two main scenarios that you want to be aware of. If you are being too aggressive, this will obviously hurt your efficiency. If you're being too conservative in terms of bidding, you will miss out on growth and both scenarios hurt your bottom line so it's really important to understand that you need to find a balance between the two in most of the cases in order to well optimize towards a good bottom line result so by now you should have crystal clear growth and efficient goals that we went over in the goals and kpis module and you should have also validated them when validating your google ads goals whether it was indeed possible to make them work or not So over here, you can see a goal that we went over previously. For example, generate 500 closed deals in Q1 2025 for termite control for beneath or below $100 customer acquisition costs. So over here, you have your growth goal, which are 500 closed deals in Q1 2025. And you also have your efficiency goals, which is going to be your $100 customer acquisition cost. you cannot exceed them in order to well basically obtain those close deals so this is a fine balance between having growth goals and efficiency targets smartly formulated so the more aggressive your growth targets the more you would have to invest in order to well hit those growth targets and if you recall this weighing skill of the goals and kpis lesson you will understand that the higher the volume you need the lower the efficiency is going to be and it also works the other way around the higher you want your efficiency to be the lower your volume is going to be because these are conflicting elements so to say you cannot maximize both simultaneously it simply cannot be done unless you start working on other variables other than bits so to say so in order to validate your CPA and ROAS targets or CPA or ROAS targets, you need your break even points to be calculated and these are going to be your starting point when determining if your efficiency targets are going to be correct or not, and the percent of profit you would have to invest in acquisition is your variable over here. And we also call that the profit to acquisition ratio. This is going to be, well, the variable that you can adjust as a Google ad specialist in, well, in good conversations with your stakeholder, because it really affects your bottom line, obviously, because with this variable, you're going to determine how much of the profit you're going to reinvest in acquisition. And the higher it is, the less profitable your ads are going to be, but the more volume you're going to push and vice versa. So you need to always consult with your stakeholder before actually doing this. But this is a very, very, very important variable in order to well come up with a proper fish sheet target so over here you can see three scenarios where we are going to be using a different acquisition investment a profit to acquisition ratio so to say which is going to be this particular variable over here so in the first example it is set to 25 percent in the second example it is set to 50 percent and in the third example, it is set to 75%. And as you can see, the other inputs are going to remain stable, constant. So we have the same average deal value with the same profit margins with the same lead to closed deal rate over here. But if you are going to look at the outputs in terms of your target CPAs, they're going to be really, really different. So the more you're willing to invest of your profit towards google ads in order to well acquire new customers or acquire new closed deals in this particular case the the higher your cpa targets in this instance are going to be and the lower your target row ads is going to be and therefore the more aggressive you you are able to bid so obviously the higher the profit to acquisition ratio the less profitable your campaigns are going to be because you're going to mess with your efficiency in order to hit your growth goals so therefore it's always a best practice to find a good balance between the two because you can also overshoot it so if you are looking for growth volumes or you're looking to maximize profit for example that doesn't necessarily mean that you have to use a relatively low profit to acquisition ratio or a relatively high there's always a fine balance between between one percent and one hundred percent and you can validate that by using google ads tools like the performance the performance planner for example and we're going to dive into that in a bit so the better your unit economics the more aggressive your targets are also going to be so if your inputs are also going to be improved for example you're able to hit a average deal value of 4,000 euros instead of 3,200 dollars or euros or even 5,000 euros the more aggressive your targets are also going to be because your break-even points are going to be well more competitive so to say. So that's really important to understand over here as well. So now you have a couple of questions to ask yourself when determining a correct profit to acquisition ratio. The first question you have to ask yourself is what percent of profit do you need to spend on acquisition which is google ads to hit your growth goals over here and can you hit your growth goals without stretching too much because sometimes you have to stretch too much for example towards 100% profit to acquisition ratio meaning you're essentially optimizing for a break even level and there won't be any money made at the bottom line so to say so these are two key questions to ask yourself when validating your CPA and ROAS targets and you should always be aware that you should always have growth goals even if your primary goal is efficiency because you still need guardrails to prevent a bidding too conservatively and therefore drying up. So if you are really efficiency focused you want to hit for example a particular target CPA, a custom acquisition cost target or a particular ROAS target you cannot forget about growth goals because if you are going to stare yourself blindly at only efficiency your efficiency target might be two aggressive so to say where your volumes your growth targets are going to be drying drying up so to say and your account is going to well slowly die and that's what you want to prevent at all costs so therefore always have growth goals and always have fishy goals so to say so now let me give you an example of one of my clients in order to to illustrate what needs to be done in order to come up with a good profit to acquisition ratio in order to hit your growth goals while still not pay too much in terms of efficiency so to say. So here's a goal that I have for one of my clients where I need to generate 75k in monthly revenue while maintaining a minimum ROAS of 250% all non-branded. So we've got a growth goal over here which is 75k in monthly revenue and an efficiency target of 250% ROAS non-branded so the efficiency over here is the primary goal efficiency is really important to this particular customer so therefore I've inserted this little p so you know that this is the primary goal and the s means it is a secondary goal so efficiency is primary meaning we need also growth goals in order to prevent flying out of the corner and drying up if our efficiency target is too conservative so to say so therefore we came up with this secondary growth goal which is 75k revenue per month in order to find a good balance between the two so the unit economics of this particular customer is really simple they're selling a high converting information information product, just one product inside of their web shop, so to say. So it's more like lead gen than e-com in my personal opinion. But yeah, they still have a card and they still have a checkout. So it's a really simple e-com business. And since they have a great profit margin of 77%, the break-even ROAS is really, really, really competitive, which is really nice because it gives you a lot of wiggle room and a lot of, a lot of room to bid competitively, so to say. So this is obviously great, a great looking unit economic over here. So the break-even ROAS can be quickly calculated by dividing one by the profit margin and that equals 130% and in order to hit our growth goals of 75K revenue per month we came up with a target ROAS of 250% non-branded after validating and that resulted in a profit to acquisition ratio of 52%. So 52% of the profit from Google Ads is going to be reinvested in Google Ads in order to hit our targets so to say and this is relatively safe. So half of the profit from Google Ads is going to be reinvested. So we still have some room to adjust, for example, if competition is getting more, more fierce, or we need to pump up some volumes in order to hit our more aggressive growth goals, for example, well, you still have a lot of room in your profit to acquisition ratio in order to be less efficient and in order to be more aggressive, so to say. So after validating inside of the performance planner for Q2, which is the upcoming quarter when recording this particular video, we saw that in Q2, we are expecting a conversion value of 261K. Well, if you divide that by three, you get your average monthly revenue over there, which is going to be higher than the 75K revenue per month non-branded that we have as a growth goal. And you can also see that the efficiency is going to come in at 260% in order to hit these growth goals. So we also have some room in terms of non-branded efficiency targets. So this is all looking really good. Also, if you look at the performance planning curve, you will see that there are in fact diminishing returns. The higher you go and the more aggressive you're going to bid, but it is not in fact at its end in terms of diminishing return by looking at the line graph so to say so this is looking really really solid so no problem at here over here to hit our goals by looking at the forecast obviously everything inside of this forecast is well not taking into consideration for example increased competition it's not taking into consideration conversion rate drops or whatever so you need to be aware of that So when making projections like this, you need to be careful to take the projected volumes not at face value, because these tools typically show smooth curves, suggesting linear growth. But in reality, like I said, you will hit a certain point where diminishing returns are going to be a point of concern. And you also need to be aware of that these performance planner forecasts assume optimal conditions, like I said. and don't fully account for factors like increased competition, ad fatigue, market saturation, a drop in conversion rate for whatever reason. So you need to be aware of those variables that can negatively impact your forecast, but you need to be aware that you also need to work with what is available at hand. So I think when validating your CPA and ROAS targets by seeing if you can hit your growth targets by utilizing certain efficiency targets. Using the performance planner is your best tool at hand. There are also other tools that can be used for this. But over here, you're relying at, well, first-party Google forecast data. And I think that is as close as you can get in order to have a proper forecast and also validation. So let's do another one. So over here, I have another growth goal and another efficiency goal of a different client. So over here, we want to generate 3,000 non-branded sales per month while keeping the customer acquisition cost below $20. So a clear growth goal, which is 3,000 non-branded sales and a clear efficiency target, a CAC below $20. So the growth goal is a primary goal over here. So that is what we are trying to really, really hit. So that makes our efficiency secondary. So we do still want to have an efficient target in order to, well, still have guardrails and not fly out of the corner and forget about profitability so be aware that you always need a efficient target if you are also working towards a primary growth target so this particular customer is doing SaaS with a really simple funnel they have a sign up and that sign up either becomes a paid subscriber on or not so in terms of profit margin they have a 67% profit margin on average, that means that the break-even CPA or the break-even customer acquisition cost, while also taking into consideration a 20% average sign-up to close deal rate, results in, well, this $37 break-even CPA, customer acquisition cost. If you calculate that backwards to the break-even CPA for sign-ups, you're going to get a break-even of 7.7 dollars so we cannot exceed these cpas because if we would that would mean that we were losing out of money so in order to hit our growth targets of 3 000 sales per month well we do need to keep in mind these break-even points in order to hit these growth goals of 3 000 sales per month which are our primary growth goals, we needed to aim for a $20 target customer acquisition cost or $20 target CPA, depending on how you look at things. And we also validated that in the performance planner, also based on historical data and calculating backwards, we therefore need a 53% profit to acquisition ratio, which is also relatively safe. So relatively safe targets over here in terms of efficiency in order to hit our growth goals. And we still have some wiggle room in order to bid more aggressively if we are missing out on sales volume or if we for whatever reason need more. So this is a really important KPI over here that signals that we still have some wiggle room. So if we are throwing this into the performance planner for the upcoming quarter we will see that the performance planner is suggesting that we are getting 8,550 conversions close deals within a average CPA which is the customer acquisition cost over here of $19.47 well if you calculate this back to monthly then we are in fact not hitting the 3k conversions per month so that means that we might have to increase the target CPAs a bit in order to hit our primary growth goals because obviously the growth is primary and we want to look at all things in order to hit those growth goals but since we have some wiggle room in terms of the profit to acquisition ratio we could suggest to the stakeholder to increase the target CPA slightly to start hitting your monthly growth goals based on the upcoming quarter which is Q2 2025. So this is how you could essentially use the profit to acquisition ratio to to increase it a little bit from i think it was 53 percent yeah 53 percent to for example 56 57 see what that does with your with your target cac your target cpa based on the closed deals and then see if you're able to hit those 3k sales per month so you can use this as a variable once again to affect your your goals so when performance planner and bit simulator data aren't available which does happen in a lot of cases you want to rely on historical performance to gauge potential returns so in order to see if you are still on track in terms of hitting your growth targets you should look back at well the last couple of months last year what you did then and also factor in other metrics like impression share metrics to see what efficiency target needs to be hit in order to hit your growth goals obviously this is going to be way less predictive than utilizing the bit simulator or utilizing the performance planner but if you don't have the data or if it isn't available to you you simply have to look for different ways in order to look for validation and also that means you need to be aware of that you need to be more well you look to you you need to look with hawk eyes so to say at your efficiency performance in order to also see if you need to adjust if that makes sense so one last example before we go to the key takeaways so over here i have one more goal of one particular client that is focusing on well more overarching business results they have implemented profit tracking and they want to aim for a particular contribution margin coming from Google Ads. So over here, the growth goal is achieve 10K in contribution margin per month while maintaining a POAS of 200%, which is going to be the efficiency target over here. The growth over here is going to be primary. So we need to hit 10K in terms of contribution margin, non-branded the secondary goal is going to be a 200 target poas also non-branded well this is an e-commerce store selling once again digital products meaning they have a relatively high gross profit well over here the gross profit and the order expenses are all being calculated in profit metrics on a order level and also on the product level within the order so this is going to be really specific in terms of, well, the real profitability. So therefore I do not want to mess with the arbitrary calculator template that we used in the previous two examples, because we are in fact calculating the profitability on the order level. Also meaning that a 100% POAS equals a break-even level so that basically tells us how far we can go to not lose out of money and well based on the performance planner and based on the simulations we did we saw that we needed to hit a 210 percent target boas in order to to hit our growth targets which is going to be a 10k contribution margin non-branded so based on the performance planner once again looking at q2 2025 we saw that on average we are expecting a 71k in terms of conversion value this is going to be your gross profit being imported from in this case profit metrics we have to deduct the google ad spend from that well that gives us around so we are relatively safe and if you divide that by three we have a more than 10k per month in terms of net profit which is going to be expected within a target POAS of 210%. So over here, you can see that we in fact are going to hit our targets based on the target POAS that we have set for the upcoming month. We also have a lot of wiggle room because, well, 100% POAS is our break-even level. A 210% target POAS essentially means that we will have a 100 profit so to say coming from our google ads investments our google ads costs you can also see that there's enough room to bid more aggressively based on this particular chart before we start hitting diminishing returns obviously this is going to be less and less flat it will flatten the more you go to the right and the lower your pose is going to be. So if we cannot hit our contribution margin for whatever reason, we still have a lot of wiggle room to, well, decrease target POAS a bit because there's simply enough room between the big even level and the target POAS, so to say. So as you can see, you can use your profit to acquisition ratio to influence the outcome. And if you want to visualize this, it's best to visualize the profit to acquisition ratio as a slider. So you can see it as a slider between growth and efficiency, where if you're aiming for maximizing growth, you're basically sliding to the left, where you're going to be reinvesting 100% profit to acquisition. So 100% of the profit from Google Ads goes back into bidding really aggressively in order to bring in the maximum amount of growth. obviously this is going to lead to zero profit per conversion if you're aiming to 100% profit acquisition ratio and you will be optimizing for your minimum viable CPA or your maximum viable target ROAS based on your unit economics the more you steer towards efficiency the more you are going to aim for a for example one percent profit to acquisition ratio the more you're going to start optimizing for the starvation zone. So the more you go to the right, so let's say you're going to go far right towards a 10% profit acquisition ratio. Well, the more you're going to be in that starvation zone and the more severe you're going to be under investing where your CPA targets are simply too low or your ROAS targets are simply too high, aiming for a too high of an efficiency leading to basically non-existent volumes so therefore what is really really important is that you have always growth goals and always have efficiency goals and that you're always going to validate them because you need to find a balance in order to drive enough growth within a solid acceptable efficiency target so to say so when determining and validating your targets keep this slider in mind because you cannot you cannot maximize both simultaneously you have to go for you have to steer towards growth or you have to steer towards efficiency and it's basically a dance based on the google ads goals you're trying to achieve based on the overarching business goals that your stakeholder is looking to achieve so if for whatever reason you can't drive meaningful volumes to hit your growth targets while stretching your target while stretching your profit to acquisition ratio towards 100%, meaning that you're reinvesting 100% of your profit to Google Ads, which is going to be your break-even point, then often that signals that you might have a unit economics related problem. Meaning you won't be able to scale by setting higher bids because you will break even, not make any money at all, or even worse, lose out on money, where you're going to be investing in Google Ads, in acquiring new customers where you're essentially pissing away a lot of valuable money so to say and that's what you want to prevent at all costs so if you see that your profit acquisition ratio is becoming really unhealthy where you cannot hit your growth goals whether primary or secondary look at your unit economics look at if those are competitive enough look at if those can be improved or have to be improved and you can also take a look at your growth goals because sometimes your goals might also be unrealistic so you have to look at both sides of the things look at unit economics how they can be improved but also look at the growth goals to see if your stakeholder is not becoming unrealistic where you need to stretch your profit acquisition ratio towards 100 percent and this is how you can also have a proper conversation with your stakeholder in order to come up with a really solid CPA target or ROAS target that has been validated among different points. So over here, you can see what I mean by increasing the unit economics or improving the unit economics. So the lead conversion rates are staying the same at all three scenarios, but you can see that the average deal value and the profit margin has been slightly improved from €3,000 to €4,000 to €5,000, where we also improved the profit margin a bit from 50% to 55% to 60%. The profit to acquisition ratio remained the same, 50%. But you can see how this is going to impact your output in terms of break-even levels and efficiency targets. So the better your unit economics, the better your break-even points are going to be, the more competitive you going to be able to bid and also while remaining your profit acquisition ratios stable while increase while increasing your unit economics the more aggressive your target cpas are going to be the higher you're being able to bid if you compare these three scenarios and the lower your target rows is going to be because your break-even rows is going to be lower as well so that all leads to more competitive bids, leads to a upwards positive spiral, so to say. So don't underestimate unit economics when, well, validating your efficiency targets, so to say. So key takeaways. Profit to acquisition ratio balances growth between efficiency. See it as a slider. You cannot optimize for both of them. You have to either go between growth or go to efficiency based on what you're trying to achieve. The break-even zone is essentially a 100% profit to acquisition ratio that represents the maximum sustainable bidding that you can do, otherwise known as the maximum viable ROAS that you can set or the, sorry, the minimal viable CPA that you're able to set and the maximum viable ROAS that you're able to set. Overly aggressive targets lead to a starvation zone. Because if you're aiming to, for example, towards a 1% profit acquisition ratio, that leads to really not competitive bids. We're able to not set competitive bids leading to no volume or non-existent volume at all. So therefore we call that the starvation zone. Poor unit economics prevent profitable scaling. So if you see that you're stretching too much in terms of profit to acquisition ratio, you need to take a closer look at your unit economics. You also need to take a closer look at your goals because they might be unrealistic and you always want to validate targets with the available data at hand, so try to validate this by using Google native tools like the performance planner, bit simulator. If those are not available, look for other ways to validate. For example, look at your historical data, compare the data of the last couple of months, compare the data year on year in order to find a solid spot in order to hit your Google Ads goals. So with that, I want to end this lesson. I hope that you found it useful. Do not forget about this particular step because if you don't validate your goals, you're going to have a hard time optimizing for Google Ads goals and overarching business results. So this is really, really important to not neglect.
