# Manual bidding vs Automated bidding

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** bids-budgets-mastery
- **Section:** Fundamentals
- **Duration:** 18:25
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

In this video, I would like to quickly touch on manual bidding versus automated bidding. In this lesson, we are going to touch on the differences between the two, the pros of automated bidding, and also signals we can process or access, but smart bidding can. So you can bid the old way or you can bid the new way. The old way is basically through manual bidding. Back in the day when I just started out as a Google Ads specialist, the only bid strategy that was available to me was essentially manual bidding. so I was able to only set max CPC bits a few times per month depending on the volumes that were going through my accounts if you were lucky then I was able to check you essentially had just a couple of variables that you could use in order to make bit adjustments for example on the device location hour by day variables you had to spend hours and hours and hours on analyzing spreadsheets in order to come up with the best possible optimized max CPCs for the next couple of days or next couple of weeks ahead. You had to base them on a lot of aggregated data. So for example, if you were to make bit adjustments based on devices or hour by day, you needed to look back months ago in the past in order to have enough data to find patterns inside of your spreadsheet and therefore also optimize your max CPC bits. therefore things were really slow so if something changed changed instead of the market for example competition changed or you had particular seasonalities instead of your account you were quite late to react on that because everything that you had to optimize was based on historical data essentially and obviously we were we're only humans so we had to do all of that by ourselves so you really needed to be like an excel wizard in order to make the best possible max cpc enhancements and not everybody well had those skills so bidding was well this this really complex thing that took hours and hours of hours of our day back then and it still does if you're still relying on manual bidding so if you recall these ad schedules and these screenshots I think you're one of the OGs so this was one of the first interfaces that we had to work with over here you can see ad schedules and also locations where you can see the negative or positive bid adjustments that we were able to set and we had to basically analyze those bid adjustments ourselves based on all of the aggregated data inside of our account we also had to do hour of the day day by day of the week analysis through third-party scripts like the scripts from brain lab that were really really popular back then i'm still using this now and then for really unique situations but back then this was the shit and we really had to optimize our account using all of these advanced scripts that were able to give us these data points in order to optimize our bid adjustments and yeah if you've been around you will remember, it was a whole different ballgame if you compare it with what we are having right now. So there are still use cases for manual bidding because right now, if you're doing branded search campaigns, you might still rely on manual CPC bidding. If you have low volume accounts, unable to meet smart bidding conversion thresholds, then manual CPC bidding might be also a solution in order to still get traction within your account without relying on, well, automated bid strategies that cannot really do their job properly because they don't have the conversion volume. Sometimes if you're launching new campaigns with no historical conversion data, manual bidding is also a really conservative way in order to get some traction first before transitioning to a more automated bid strategy like maximize conversions or target CPA or target ROAS. And sometimes you might want to do highly controlled experiments requiring a high level of control and in those cases manual CPC bidding also still suffices but the cases are limited and they are becoming even more limited by every single year that are being passed so right now there's a much better way in order to set bids and that is automated bidding so with automated bidding we have way more way more well computing power at our disposal that we can leverage that we couldn't leverage when we were basically utilizing manual bidding. And one of the biggest pros of automated bidding is, for example, auction time bidding, where smart bidding evaluates and sets the perfect bid for every single search auction in real time, rather than adjusting bids periodically through manual CPC, where we had to extract a lot of data from our accounts, aggregate all of the data in order to find patterns, and then based on that, basically set bid adjustments. Well, automated bidding does all of that real time on the auction level in milliseconds, where it takes account a lot of different variables that we simply cannot process or sometimes even can access. The second reason why automated bidding is really, really powerful is due to adaptive query level learning. So instead of treating keywords in isolation, the algorithm learns from every single query across your entire account to make smarter bidding decisions so instead of only looking at the keywords that are basically setting bits for a lot of different queries that are being triggered by a particular keyword smart bidding is looking at the query level and then also setting bits at the auction time so enabling to basically set way more competitive bids based on all of the variables that smart bidding takes into account and lastly the algorithm analyzes and combines over 18 different signals like devices locations time of day gender age groups etc etc to understand the true value of each search query so if you recall manual bidding we only were able to set bid adjustments for just a few variables but smart bidding is able to combine all of them together and basically adjust the bit and set the perfect bit in milliseconds combining all of those signals together in order to bid according to the potential value of that click so therefore automated bidding is so incredibly powerful so if we dive a little bit deeper into every single every single one of them we can dive a little bit deeper so let's start with auction time bidding so how does this work well essentially smart bidding is analyzing each auction individually so it is adjusting bids in real time for every single search that takes place where it also considers the user's full context in order to make instant optimal bidding decisions so before smart bidding was actually a thing advertisers could only update bids a few times per day at most if you were lucky and had a lot of volumes going through your account and now billions and billions and billions of calculations happen every single second across the full globe and google ads is simply setting bits real time for every single query and every single auction which is really mind-boggling to me adaptive query level learning if you look at the key benefits over here while learning happens at the search query level instead of the keyword level data is shared across your entire account and this is also really powerful because if you're moving around keywords inside of your account you're adding existing keywords that trigger similar search queries that you've targeted before in different ad groups, different campaigns, then smart bidding is instantly being able to pick up the historical data because it already learned on the query level. And that's why this is so powerful. And this is why smart bidding picks up relatively soon. If you, for example, segment out your campaign, targeting the same keyword themes over there that you've targeted prior to that, It also leads to way faster optimizations for newer keywords, and it also leads to better performances for low volume keywords because it is sharing the knowledges of the search query level insights that it got across your full account. And lastly, in terms of signals, if you look at the signals that smart bidding is able to analyze, there is simply a lot. simply a lot of insights we cannot even see as google as specialist inside of the ui things like device and operating system location and time language and browser user lists and be user behavior search intent and search context user context so unlike bidding unlike manual bidding that only looks at signals in isolation smart bidding analyzes how all of these signals work together, and then also finds patterns across different combinations in order to set the perfect bit. So over here, you can see all of the different variables that are taken into consideration when smart bidding automated bidding is setting bits. So it simply looks at, for example, the operating system times the conversion rate times the network type times the ad characteristics types, the language. So it compounds and compounds and compounds and have these amazing complex combinations and still is able to set the most optimum bid at the query level real time calculated in milliseconds. So let's see this in action. So over here, you will see some dimension data for a high volume campaign where my target CPA is set to 20 euros and the date range is simply a full year, basically the full of 2024. so over here you can see the performance per device so my target cpa is 20 euros as i mentioned and you can see that the algorithm is also optimizing towards that 20 euros you can see that different devices are a little bit over a little bit under but based on the conversion rates the algorithm is automatically adjusting the average cpcs and therefore maximizing the eligible impressions maximizing the amount of clicks within the target cpa without having you to well even think about the average cpcs that are being set and previously through manual cpc we had to adjust all of this ourselves and now this is being calculated real time based on all of these different dimensions within your account for example over here you can see the gender and the age group. Again, you can see that the target CPA and the average CPA are very close to each other, but you can see different conversion rates per gender and different conversion rates per age group. And the higher the conversion rate, for example, over here, the best performing age group without, well, looking at the undetermined, you can see that the best performing age group is 25 to 34 well you can see that therefore also the average CPC is set the highest and therefore we can maximize the amount of volumes through this particular age group because it is performing above average and it also goes the other way around so over here you can see that the age group 55 to 64 is converting relatively low and 65 or more is even converting less than that And that all translates back to a lower CPC because you can be less competitively, you can be less competitive because of your lower conversion rates, because you still have to account for your average CPA that needs to match your target CPA of, in this case, 20 euros. Same goes for day of the week. So over here, you can see days from Sunday all the way to Saturday, where you can see the conversion rates on Monday and Tuesday are simply the highest. That translates to a higher CPC, translates to a lot of volume, translates to a higher CTR, and therefore also translates to a lot of conversions that we're able to capitalize on on our best converting days. Everything being done automatically by smart bidding. Same goes for performance per hour of the day and also for performance per country. So next to that, like I mentioned earlier, smart bidding is also setting the optimal bid on the query level. So even though our account might not have a lot of individual keywords that we have fully built out, smart bidding is still able to learn on the query level and therefore also being able to set bids on the query level. So the better a query converts, the more competitively your bids can be, obviously, and the more you can capitalize on that through smart bidding, because you're essentially wanting to maximize your conversions within the target CPA of 20 euros in this particular case. And this is done, like I said, automatically inside of your full account. So previously, we had to do all of this by ourselves so the traditional approach was to go through all of those high impact high volume variables like devices the time of day day of the week location performance and then also set the appropriate bit adjustments based on that but right now smart bidding can do all of that automatically so instead of doing all of the work ourselves smart bidding is able to recognize that variables like mobile phones plus mornings plus a location near store equals a much higher conversion rates than normal and therefore adjust the bit based on the complete context on the query level so that is really really powerful and saves us a lot of valuable time and it's just and it simply also outperforms our manual work besides that it prevents a lot of over adjustments from multiple signals so previously where a lot of the things went wrong was that google s specialists were able to to set well aggressive bed adjustments for a lot of different variables like well devices time of day location performance gender age group but if you were combining some of them at a very specific auction then sometimes you had a really really aggressive over adjustment or an under adjustment, because let's say you're doing a plus 15% for mornings, plus 20% for a particular location, plus 25% for a particular gender, plus 30% for a particular age group, while all of that compounds. And that essentially leads to over adjustments and a really, really aggressive average CPC. And smart bidding essentially prevents that because it looks at all of these signals combined and then sets the most optimal bit so besides that i want you to not forget about the other signals we simply cannot access in the user interface so for example things like the search history where where basically google knows about what the user has searched for in the past well we don't know that as google google as specialists we don't have access to that valuable information. And I think we won't ever get access to that information because it's so privacy sensitive. But we also don't know about past interactions because Google obviously knows about previous ad impressions, clicks. They know about browsing history. They know about other ads people clicked on. We don't have access to that information. So Google really knows if somebody is likely to click on our ad, and also if it is likely for that particular click to convert. Also terms like cross-device behavior. While Google is able to track user actions across multiple devices linked to their Google account, we are simply not really able to do that instead of the UI. So it requires a lot of computing and a lot of learning in order to set a full optimal bit based on all of these variables plus all of the variables that we already discussed like the ones that are accessible instead of the ui so just think about the immense computing power that is required in order to set bits in milliseconds at the auction time so therefore automated bidding can simply not be outperformed by manual bidding in most cases so smart bidding processes more data in one day than a human could analyze in one full year and this leads to better performance and also saves you a lot of work that you can now spend on different tasks like areas where you can really make an impact on the stakeholders business so over here you can see a case of a client with more than 50 accounts and 60k keywords and smart bidding is basically doing that automatically 24 7 so over here i'm utilizing target cpa where we have lots and lots and lots of conversion data in order to properly instruct the algorithm with what works and what doesn't and it is simply hands-off with regards to bidding for most cases because we can fully rely on the algorithm to set the most optimal bids in order to maximize the conversions within our target CPA. So smart bidding handles complexities that are simply impossible to manage manually. So key takeaways of this lesson, manual bidding is really time intensive and is limited in its capabilities. Manual bidding is still relevant, but limited in its cases. So sometimes you have relevant cases like branded search campaigns, low volume campaigns, newly created campaigns with no historical data, maybe experiments that you want to run. Maybe you have a fancy advanced tactic where you need manual CPC for. Automated bidding uses real-time data and makes smarter decisions. It also analyzes signals beyond the accessible signals inside of the UI and smart bidding just simply saves a lot of time and delivers better performances in most cases. So with that, I would like to see you in the next video where we're going to dive deeper into the world of smart bidding.
