# Decision tree: Choosing bid strategy for Search

- **Source:** PPC Mastery (hub.ppcmastery.com)
- **Course:** bids-budgets-mastery
- **Section:** Decision trees
- **Duration:** 11:45
- **Transcribed:** 2026-03-23

## Transcript

Welcome to the first Bits Strategy Selection Decision Tree. So in this particular video, I'm going to walk you through the Bits Strategy Selection Framework for the campaign type, which is Search. We have created six different decision trees for all of the different high-impact and frequently used campaign types like Search, Standard Shopping, Display, Video, Performance Max, and also Demand Gen. And we've created different frameworks because not all of the bid strategies are available within every single campaign type, so to say. So search is relatively flexible in the bid strategies that you can use because we can choose from manual CPC all the way to target ROAS. And therefore, this decision tree is relatively complex because there's much to choose from. And that's also why I'm going to give you a full breakdown of this particular decision tree in particular the next couple of decision trees for standard shopping performance max display video demand gen are not going to be having a video walkthrough like this because the first couple of questions that you need to ask yourself are relatively similar to this particular search framework so therefore i will be repeating myself heavily and that's not going to be really interesting for you to watch so therefore in the next couple of lessons i'm only going to give you the decision tree itself so before we dive in it's also important to know that this decision tree is focused on determining your initial bid strategy when creating a new campaign so if you already have a campaign in place and you want to scale from that particular campaign then these decision trees are not suitable for that for that instance we have created a different decision tree framework inside of the optimization module, where you're going to be scaling from your current bid strategy in an existing campaign. So keep that in mind. All of this is determined from a new campaign perspective. So let's dive in. So we're going to be dissecting the search campaign type bid strategies over here. And we're going to start with the first question to ask yourself do you need full control over your bits if that is the case you're best off utilizing manual cpc because with manual cpc you're the one behind the steering wheel you're the one setting the max cpcs and there are several use cases for this for example if you want to utilize a branded search campaign well in those cases a manual cpc strategy might be the best choice because you're the one in control but most cases you do not want to have full control over bits and you want to utilize smart bidding or automate automated bid strategies because google's bid strategies can do better in most of the cases and i'm going to tell you why in one of the future lessons as well so if you do not want to have control over bits then you have to ask yourself the question is the account new because if the account is new you will probably have zero historical data you have zero conversions you do not you do not know what works and in that case you need to be a little bit more cautious and you cannot rely on automated bid strategies that are conversion focused from the very first beginning so if your account is new then you have to ask yourself the follow-up question do you have niche specific knowledge if you have niche specific knowledge because you have set up a similar looking account or campaign prior to this newly created campaign well in that case you probably know what keywords work what keywords don't work you probably have a extensive negative keyword list already in place and if you do so do have so already you can start off with maximize clicks in order to gather data and conversion data quickly in the first couple of days first couple of weeks that basically is a really aggressive way to start collecting data but since you know what works and what doesn't you can probably target your keywords or target your yeah target your keywords in a really specific way that prevents a lot of irrelevant spend coming in in the first couple of days so from this point you can then later start scaling to a different bid strategy like maximize conversion start cpa once you have conversion data in place if you do not have niche knowledge because well the the account is completely new to you and you do not know anything about it what's going to work what's not going to work then you need to be a little bit more cautious and you need to start with manual CPC because with manual CPC you are the one behind the steering wheel you can set a little bit of well conservative bits in order to be not as aggressive as maximize clicks for example in order to cautiously collect data and once you have data in place you know what works you know what doesn't then you can migrate to a different conversion focus strategy for example if that's goal in the future. But that's once again, a different framework. So if your account is not new, then you essentially have to ask yourself, is the campaign you're launching new and does it have unfamiliar targeting? If you're targeting completely new keywords and you're targeting completely new search queries, then you have to ask yourself the similar same questions. Because Even if you have a lot of historical data inside of your account and you're targeting unfamiliar keywords in a completely different keyword theme, for example, that is, well, maybe even more competitive and you have no idea what's going to work. Then you also have to start a little bit, well, conservative. In my personal opinion, you want to start off with either maximize clicks or manual CPC. If you do launch a campaign with familiar targeting, then you essentially can select an automated bid strategy based on your goals. Why is that? Well, essentially, smart bidding learns at the query level rather than the keyword level. It leverages conversion data at the search query level across your entire account. So let's say you have been running a search campaign for months, targeting particular keyword themes and you have a lot of conversion data build up across those targeted search queries then smart bidding already knows how those queries are going to be performing so if you for example split that existing campaign into two campaigns maybe you want to allocate different budgets to a particular keyword theme maybe you want to be a little bit more aggressive in terms of efficiency targets well in that case you are targeting a familiar keyword theme and that means that you can essentially utilize an automated bid strategy from the very start because smart bidding already knows about the performance of those existing queries inside of your account. Make sense? So if that is the case, then you can choose an automated bid strategy based on your goals. And we have to essentially follow this line and we have to ask ourselves a couple of new questions. The first question to ask yourself is, do you want to optimize for visibility? Do you want to optimize for impressions if yes then you want to use a target impression share strategy most of the cases this is not the best strategy you're going to be utilizing but for some cases this might be the reason if not you want to ask yourself the question do you want to optimize for traffic clicks if yes then utilize a maximize clicks strategy because that strategy basically maximize the clicks within your daily budget so to say if you do not want to optimize for impressions or clicks but you want to optimize for conversion volume for example leads or transactions then you want to ask yourself the question do you have sufficient conversion data inside of your account what is sufficient conversion data well sufficient conversion data is basically 50 conversions per month on the campaign level, on the portfolio bid strategy level. Well, if that is the case and you have sufficient data, then you can essentially continue to the next step and you can essentially ask yourself the question, do you want to control the efficiency target, the CPA? If so, then you want to use a target CPA strategy. If you do not have a specific efficiency target, then you can utilize maximized conversions. If you do not have sufficient data, you want to essentially go back to starting off with either maximized clicks or manual CPC, depending on your niche knowledge, in order to collect conversion data to begin with. And if you have enough conversion data in place after a couple of days, a couple of weeks, then you can start migrating to a more conversion-focused strategy once you have enough sufficient data in place so that is really important to ask yourself and therefore I've built in this particular check over here so if you do not want to optimize for conversion volume you do not want to optimize for clicks you do not want to optimize for impressions but you want to optimize for conversion value instead for example you want to optimize for revenue you want to optimize for gross profit you want to optimize for a lifetime value then once again you have to ask yourself the same question do you have sufficient conversion data if not start with either maximize clicks or manual cpc if you do have sufficient data go to the next step and ask yourself the question do you want to control efficiency your your ROAS so to say if yes you want to utilize target ROAS if you do not want to influence the efficiency you can start off with using maximize conversion value So this is, in essence, the flowchart that you want to go through when selecting a new, suitable bid strategy for your newly created campaign. And as you can see, you have to do a couple of checks, which are really reasonable to do, from my personal opinion. And once you've got your campaign running, you've collected your data, and you might want to migrate away to a more conversion-focused strategy later, or you want to scale from your current situation, well, then we want to follow up with the scaling decision tree framework, once again, that we will touch on in the optimization framework. You can expect similar decision tree frameworks for different campaign types, like display, standard shopping, video, performance max, demand gen, with different, slightly different questions to ask yourself. But they are very, very similar. But now you know how to utilize this framework. So in the next couple of lessons, you can essentially go through the flowcharts yourself. So with that said, I hope you find the flowcharts useful. I think they're really helpful in order to determine the best possible business strategy when launching a new campaign. So I hope you found it useful as well. So hopefully see you in one of the future.
