# No Priors Ep. 119 | With Applied Intuition's Qasar Younis and Peter Ludwig

- **Channel:** https://www.youtube.com/@NoPriorsPodcast
- **Video ID:** L3yC9yMp8xM
- **Upload Date:** 20250617
- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L3yC9yMp8xM

## Transcript

Pastor Peter, thank you so much for joining me today on New Priors. Thanks for having us. I uh I came as casual as I could for the San Francisco I was worried about you. You look usually you're buying. You're wearing something nice. I was kind of as concerned. Is everything okay? Yeah, it is. It is. Uh two two things. One is, you know, I wanted to fit in with the San Francisco vibe. You know, Sunnyville. I I usually dress more like people to be honest. I think that's my outfit. Uh because secondly, you know, I I got this Carheart, you know, thing and I don't know if you guys know Carheart is suddenly cool. Uh I got the memo from the, you know, cool club newslet. It's a Detroit brand. If anybody doesn't know, we're representing Detroit in Silicon Valley. So, very nice. Yeah. I just thought um I thought you're not impressed. It's okay. I'm extremely impressed. I thought it was one of those things where I think you guys just raised at a $15 billion valuation and so I thought it was more like kind of you're done. We just checked out now. No, no, no. Last night we were having dinner with uh with one of the top three global OEM CTOs and he says, you know, I I can't reveal who it is only because it's active active at negotiations on a deal. And he says, well, you know, congratulations on the fund raise. How do you feel? And I said, well, you know, honestly, I feel a little nervous. You know, we have we have, you know, big goals ahead of us. He said, don't be a coward. Attack. And I was like, okay, I will send that message to my team. Don't be cowards. Attack. I mean, I guess um in general when I think about you also I've kn I've known you for um over a decade. Yeah. I think I've led two of your rounds and I I feel like you're the most successful, most quiet company in AI. You've you're now at over a thousand people. You're in the hundreds of millions of revenue. You've been profitable the whole time. So, you haven't spent a dime, I think, of any of the money that you've ever raised, which is pretty insane from unbelievable to me as well. Capital efficiency perspective. Well, we're trying to change that quiet part, by the way, from here. super quiet to San Francisco and wore a jean jacket. Yeah, exactly. Could you tell people a little bit about more generally what you do? I know you have three lines of business around engineering, tooling, um autonomy, and then sort of uh incar related product. Could you kind of break down the origins of the company, how you got started, what you focus on, and just kind of give a primer because I think again you've you've accomplished an enormous amount. There's still a lot ahead of you, but my gosh, you you've done Yeah. One, by the way, this is uh directly for founders more than anything else is there's a huge value in especially when the company is young not to be constantly out there. I'm sure there's downsides as well like people don't know you and it's harder to recruit or whatever. That's never really been a huge issue for us, but the advantages you get is you can operate, you know, the moment you say we do X, there's an expectation you do X, even if X ends up being wrong. And so I think that like it's like, you know, keep your identity small kind of view. And so yeah, the the company uh Applied Intuition is a $15 billion we just raised $15 billion profitable AI company. And what that what we really do is we're uh we're in we build vehicle intelligence. So it's a broad category of how do you take this uh you know all the positive things about AI that we're seeing in you know in LLM and in chat and you take them into the real world. So how do you put intelligence into cars and trucks and tanks and fighter jets and uh and as roughly as those three business lines. So we originally started with engineering tools in order to build and deploy that type of you know intelligence into vehicles uh and tested and validate it because unlike your laptop um these are safety critical systems. This was initially stuff that was built I think for the self-driving world right you were doing simulation environments. Exactly. And then we expanded to all software in in the vehicle. That's broadly what what the company does. In terms of what's unique about the company, I think is we've always thought pretty deeply about building products that are going to be used quickly. If you're in the AI universe, especially in eight, nine years ago in the autonomy universe, a lot of research happening and research can be um super exciting and actually quite uh what's what's the word like losing huge like metric tons of money without actually you know you can convince yourself you're doing some really really impressive things. How do you des how do you describe the company? Yeah, just underlining engineering tools, our vehicle operating system and then autonomy and applications. And so we started in engineering tools, but you sort of reach a point where in order to make your engineering tools better, you actually need to be developing applications yourselves because that sort of informs you and and really getting to next generation technologies. Um, and then it comes to okay, well, I want to run these applications on vehicles and well, we need a great operating system and we think that we can do something better than anything else in the world. And so that's sort of how we end up with those three business areas. I mean there is a company that executed the strategy is Microsoft. Yeah. 75 to 82 was doing tools that people don't remember that was Microsoft business. Then they went to operating systems and they went to applications like you know office and and Windows and stuff like Office and Word and stuff like that. We're doing the same except the hardware is not PC manufacturers. It's cars and trucks. And I think what's you know one of the old Peter Teal things like what do you believe to be true that other people don't believe true? When we were starting the company, if you remember, there were a lot of startups in 2016, 2017 doing self-driving. And our view was there's no path to autonomy. There's no path to like this next generation because without the manufacturers in the loop. Today, we're almost like a Tesla minus the hardware. We do all the stuff that a Tesla has or some other companies, but we put it we didn't partner with manufacturers to bring that technology to them. Yeah. It's really interesting because if you look at the self-driving wave to your point, there's like two dozen different companies or three dozen, you know, tons of companies. And then if you look at the ones that are have arguably been most successful in the US, it's two incumbents, right? It's Whimo, which is a subsidiary of Google and then Tesla. And then you guys are sort of providing that same sort of stack more generally for any automotive provider to sort of adopt and use. And I think it's not only the self-driving or the autonomy side that you you folks really focus on, but I think the OS is really powerful. You sell, to your point, defense, construction, but a lot of your business is the giant automotive companies around the world. Could you talk a little bit about what you're providing through that OS and why it's beneficial and what does it actually do? When we refer to the vehicle operating system, we're talking about the full software stack that runs on these embedded systems that run on these vehicles. So, um at the lowest level, right, we even do bootloaders because if you want to do very reliable updates to embedded systems, you have to control the bootloadader and then you go above that and we can talk about the actual um the technical gory details of the operating system itself. to think about like a true operating system but then on top of that you have to have the middleware which is responsible for um some abstraction but also some really important safety critical data transport uh aspects of it. On top of that you actually have the applications that are running and uh also many many layers to those of course but uh they end up really controlling the vehicle but then also displaying information and that information could be displayed to somebody who's in the vehicle or it could actually be displayed to someone who's outside of a vehicle let's say in the mining example. What uh um I mean now Peter worked on Android at Google. We that's where we met. We worked together at Google. Um what is the big lessons from Android especially on hardware diversity, right? That's kind of the I think the big big innovation up there. Android it's an incredible story from where it started to where it is today. I think it's true that Android is the number one OS in the world. Um like it runs on more devices than than anything else by by a healthy margin. The big thing that Android figured out was just uh how to run applications uniformly on a huge variety of hardware um and how to do that in a way that the user experience is actually consistent and there are a lot of lessons uh both at the technical and nontechnical level on how to actually enforce that. So there's this thing called the compatibility test suite which is super important and it uh it's this enormous set of of tests and test infrastructure that allow these hardware makers I think it's like uh north of it's like millions I've heard. it wasn't as big when we were working on it back then and um but what what do you get like you get this OS that can be used by billions of people on like many thousands of different types of devices and so certainly in our work we've taken inspiration from some of those techniques and and practices uh to to make sure that our our technology is applicable to such a wide variety of of vehicle types and chipsets and all of all of the details there. It seems like one key insight there as well is that if you look at the supply chain for automotive, there's lots of different manufacturers for a lot of different modules, there's sort of embedded intelligence release embedded systems on each one of these devices and it's really hard for traditional car OEM to actually make use of some of the capabilities of these things because they don't really have a good either API or interface to interact with them. And I think you all have kind of built out exactly that full layer to hook into all these different Yeah. And I would adjust that the the you know that's not really embedded intelligence. A lot of the stuff that's the software that's on these, it's embedded non- intelligence. Yeah, that's how to put it. A lot of just IO, you know, it's it's the seat warmer turns on and off and you can actually pull all of that into a into a central, you know, CPU, uh, and that gives you a lot of efficiency, not only in just the ability that now all the signals are centrally processed and you can do more interesting things like Tesla does. Uh, but it's also just cheaper. you're you're you're taking all these like redundant systems which are all kind of you know poorly managed and built with different software stacks within each of the subcomponents and uh and you're removing wiring harnesses. I mean thousands of dollars of physical hardware can literally be removed to get more functionality. So yeah you're basically streamline lining the the guts of a car and you're replacing hardware components with software. Yeah. And then removing a lot of the Yeah. And I I would say that people who grew up, let's say, purely in the Silicon Valley mindset or purely in the mindset of I can go to the store and buy this computer and I can I can write software and this computer runs whatever operating system and it generally works. You're so abstracted away from some of the very complicated details of how that hardware works. It's like overly simple. when you actually get into safety critical systems, there's so much complexity in how reliable this hardware needs to be. Um, how long it needs to last when it's actually deployed in the field. Um, and then just the cost constraints that you have like fundamentally cost matters a lot especially in in embedded systems and you have all these constraints and we still want to do really advanced things. And I think something that we've done really well is figuring out how to do some really advanced things but actually in a in a cost effective way in the kind of you know current zeitgeist of Silicon Valley where you have humanoids emerging. A lot of these questions are not answered on that side. Now it's it's better in the sense of a lot of these companies are kind of verticalized. you know, they're doing the hardware and the software and the system is way it's more complex and more simple than a car. Uh but in trucks business, car business, tanks, jets is you're talking about hundreds of companies, sometimes thousands of companies working on an individual product and they all come with very different views and nobody's really stitching all that together except and we don't since we're not uh we don't have a wiring harness business or we don't have a you know we don't make chips, we can or we're not a cloud provider, we can really come to the manufacturer and say hey you actually need a new way of uh you know operating this vehicle. So, so that's one area that you have. Are you able to announce any customers that are working with you on this or? Yeah, I mean publicly. We have a bunch of customers. Publicly, our the the hero customer that we'd come out with was Porsche. So, I think everybody knows it's generally considered to be the most competent OEM on the planet in terms of um you look at a Ferrari. A Ferrari will make more dollars per vehicle because it's truly a luxury good, but um Porsches are the most profitable cars on the planet. They there's 30 to $40,000 in profit per vehicle. So they found that sweet spot of high volume and you know ability to charge a lot because of the brand. Uh and I think you know a company like that is getting pressure from uh Tesla that says you know people are looking at those even though they're very different products people are are are looking at those and so I think we're helping them offer you know offer a consumer experience which is at par if not better and I would say it's a pressure from Tesla and also the upstart Chinese companies. There's a lot of interesting stuff happening in China. How do you think about that? So I think one of the big shifts that's happened globally is this rise of Chinese manufacturers like BYD, Xiaomi actually launched a car I think within five years which is pretty amazing because I think there were like cell phones and other sorts of hardware but they never really did anything in automotive. Um the claim is that these systems are actually pretty good on the self-driving side and in a variety of other ways. Um you know what what do you view as the global impact of these Chinese car manufacturers rising up? Lots of nuance here. Um so number one they are good. So the car business is extremely international this and what I'm saying going to say next applies also to truck con trucking construction mining but in the 80s and 90s the big boogeyman was Japan. Yeah. And if you grew up in Michigan and Detroit like us that's all it was was Japan's coming they're buying Rockefeller Center and you know we're going to be work you speaking Japanese soon. Obviously it didn't happen. Uh then it was the Koreans. So 2000 to 2010 was Hyundai is coming and all the conglomerates there yeah exactly uh Genesis etc. That obviously didn't happen. Right now it the newest version of that is China. There will be another one but there'll be Vietnam or India or something will come after China. So what the the the upstart wants to do is they they look at the industry they don't have any legacy platforms and so they can enter the business with a blank slate and you get a lot of advantages of that. You don't have all of these you know you don't have hundreds of millions of vehicles out that you're servicing and maintaining and brands that already have some legacy to them. Um, and that's allowed them to with this EV shift introduce they being the, you know, the the the the Chinese uh uh uh Communist Party and broadly the Chinese ecosystem to introduce lots and lots of brands at lots of different price points that all have pretty impressive products though what it's not. So the autonomy stuff, you know, we we we go to China regularly and we test drive these vehicles. Super impressive and uh better than Tesla to be like very very on autonomy or other features. on a ton and the features. Yeah. All around. All around. Like super impressive. I think if you look back at, you know, Elon, some of his statements about he's seen the same thing over the years. Uh and then you can just honestly look at the sales of Teslas in China, there's not it's not that impressive. It's because if you go there and you do the comparison, the local stuff is really good. Now, the stuff that's not talked about often is there is subsidies that are happening. The the the Chinese consider this to be a national uh asset. They look at, you know, the car business as a we look at defense. Yeah. and they're willing to subsidize it and they're because fundamentally the car business in some ways and any of these manufactur are there like jobs programs. Yeah. So you have hundreds of thousands of you know people who work in these industries and then service these industries and they create entire economies around cities. We think about like a you know one manufacturing plant let's say it's a billion5 billion dollars investments. The large OEMs have dozens, sometimes hundreds of manufacturing plants. And these are, when you talk about global industry, you don't get any bigger than in the industrials than automotive. And so, China's like, "Okay, if we're going to be a superpower, we need to have a real industry." I think you fast forward 5 to 10 years, you're going to see a heavy consolidation. You're seeing the early versions of that we saw, you know, already, which is the like the Huawei's of the world are starting to become this like new generation supplier. I mean, if we could be a company, yeah, we would be Huawei. Like, it's a super impressive company. Not on the everyone thinks about Huawei on the mobile phone side. We're talking about their automotive business. They provide everything and they they provide a platform, a reference vehicle, and allows the OEM then to really focus on what they're good at, which is manufacturing, marketing, branding, distribution, and consumer experiences. And so, it's that's a really so it is a really interesting ecosystem to keep an eye on. It's the most dynamic ecosystem on the planet right How do you think that impacts um sort of the economies of some of these countries? So, if I look at the US, I I think we're very lucky. I have a Tesla. I think it's a fantastic car and I think it's almost like a local champion in terms of EV. American car company, by the way. People forget that. People only think the American car companies are in Detroit. Tesla is an American. Tesla is an American is an amazing American car company. Um in Europe, it feels like they're much more threatened by the Chinese OEMs in part because they're letting them enter the markets. Right. In the US, there's heavier tariffs around it or, you know, other means to sort of prevent access. In Europe, it feels like certain markets are pretty wide open and you see BYD and others gaining share really aggressively. Is that a uh how do you think about that from a policy perspective in Europe and is that you know not going to really hurt the economies there? I think there's a resident European well I mean there there's always a question of uh right trade and trade deficit and so um I mean European companies as well as American companies they benefited a lot from the Chinese market right General Motors, Volkswagen just as examples. So they've over the years they've made a lot of profit in in China and so uh just from let's say a fairness perspective like you you can see just by trade right it makes sense that there's there's some balance that that can be achieved there. Um I think in the long term though absolutely these these questions always arise and you hit a point where the volumes become high enough that countries will demand that you manufacture it there and and then once you start manufacturing within the country often times those cost deltas actually go away like whether no matter what the brand is if it's a local brand or an international brand if it's manufactured in the same place you usually end up with a product that's going to be of similar cost. Yeah. When you talk about like if you look at so if you open your car you can look at the content of the car in your door frame. that says this is the where is it made and how much of it's made where this is not a new thing in Michigan and Detroit this is a 50-year-old 70-y old debate and because there are real implications where if you just buy all the subcomponents from foreign countries and you assemble them in Detroit that doesn't mean it's made in Detroit my slightly more costic view or aggressive view on Europe is Europeans are a little bit of asleep at the wheel um in the in the sense of I think if I could inject something into the brains of the of the leadership of whether it's the EU commissioners or or the the indust industrial uh families and leads is it's like what I was told you got to fight. Yeah. And there's almost this just like oh it's going to be you know the Chinese are so cheap. The reality is it's not there. There's a finite amount of dollars it requires to make something. And when these factories are so automated that labor arbitrage, which historically was the reason why China was really uh, you know, cheaper, goes away. So a fully automated factory in Romania versus, you know, China, they're not as different as you think. Uh, I I, you know, I fall into the category of you for, at least for America, being an American citizen, is we can't just be a consuming state. We have to build because with that building you also provide jobs and expertise and there are countless case studies of American companies that offshore our manufacturing. This is you hear the Detroit annoyance here, right? Offshore are our manufacturing to other countries including Mexico then the knowledge of building things is there and then if you're Chinese, you're Mexican, you're Vietnamese, you're Indian, whatever you are, then you're like, all I just need a little thin layer and this vacuum company is now I get all the profits. I don't need the 25 employees sitting in San Diego marketing this thing. Growing up in Michigan, I remember this very clear because I was entering the workforce at the time in the late 90s and um the view was at the point was like, oh, this is globalization and it's okay. And it's like we have to have a bit more strategy because the reality is everybody on the planet has some strategy. Yeah, Thailand has some strategy. Brazil has some strategy. The US basically made a conscious choice to um allow its industrial base to leave even though it was phrased in a different lens, but that that was a conscious choice. It's our naive view that the system will just take care of itself. It doesn't because everyone doesn't play by the same rules globally. And I think in industries like us, if you're an AI company in, you know, in in San Francisco and you supply, you know, let's say developers that are mostly based, that doesn't matter for us. We're a truly global company. So, we think about a lot of these things all the time. The advantage that we have, which is extremely uh significant, is we have the best technical talent still. You hear about Deep Seek, you hear about these other things. They're absolutely real there. It's not Again, you can't discount it. Um, and by the way, it's not that for America to win, China has to lose. Yeah, we can, the UK won, Germany won, Japan won, and the US still won. We can live in a world where everybody is winning. It doesn't, we don't have to have this conflict, but we do have to agree on the terms of engagement. And I think like that's where my view always is is like if we're on the same term we're playing field in that context Silicon Valley has some huge advantages. The best of the world come here. So it's like just as much as we complain about uh China, Mexico, Germany. We want to attract that talent and to live here and to build here and we're still I think the best in the world. So if we think ahead and we say okay um we went through a period where parts of our manufacturing industrial base were effectively exported to other countries under labor arbitrage effectively or cheaper labor a lot of knowhow went out of the country and kind of stayed there and in some cases it almost feels like we've lost some of that knowhow over time. Does robotics and autonomy and the automation of factories allow a moment in time where we can bring that back? A factory arbitrarily anywhere is cost competitive based on automation versus labor. Is this a moment in time and how should people act on that from a policy perspective or how should how should we be thinking about that more broadly from the perspective of starting companies or innovation? We don't know policy. We're not we didn't go to you know Kennedy school went to engineering schools. So uh but I think broadly speaking I think it is a huge opportunity and you see companies like rebuild and are taking advantage of this reality. So I think if I'm a founder um it's an extremely inspiring time because everybody is uh seeing this opportunity and willing to fund it. You know these companies like Rebuild Androl are funded by classic venture capitalists. They're not funded by some PE shop that's doing a roll up in New York. Yeah, makes sense. And then I guess the other piece of it is you all spend I mean you're a very profitable company which has always been very impressive given how much you've scaled the team and scaled your efforts but also you spend a lot on models and on the development of different um AI based tooling. Could you talk a little bit more about what sorts of models you've been training how you think about the world there where that's heading? Yeah. So we do a lot of work in autonomy right so uh we talk a lot about our our work in L4 trucking um and uh we do some really interesting things there right now uh largely in in Japan. that itself is a a huge uh a huge part of this and there's an awful lot of data and and model training that goes into that. We also do interesting work in autonomy in aerial and and maritime as well. And so fighter jets and drones and boats and um and all of these things there's a huge uh data problem. Um like data is not nearly as easy to collect in some of those domains as it is let's say on the on-road domain. So we've had to do a lot of work over the years on how do we actually collect this data and make this useful and uh and and put it into formats and uh such that you can actually get good performance out of the autonomy models that you train. Is there anything you can share in terms of some of the approaches you've taken there? Yes, there there's a few things I think that we that we've done uh that have been super advantageous over the years. So we've been investing in synthetic data for quite a while and the details of how that works has evolved and actually gone through several generations in our own tech stack. Um right, traditionally you had a very computer graphics heavy approach. Now you have approaches that use things like Gaussian splash and and diffusion models to to to do really interesting things with uh with synthetic data and you can extend synthetic data into a bunch of other domains including into like classified domains for for defense um where you can actually get some some really interesting advantages um and then um I'd say broadly in in autonomy uh you always have this thing where if you have interesting data as the machine learning techniques change and as let's say the new research papers come out as long as you have that corpus of data you can do really interesting things and we we've seen our own technology evolve in that direction as well where we actually able to use data that we collected even years ago uh to do things and get levels of performance that would have been previously uh impossible just using newer techniques applied to this data that we have I think one technical strategy that's been quite advantageous for us is I think we always wanted to wait in the w I mean explicitly talked about this wait in the wings until like the autonomy ecosystem converged on a handful of techniques and this kind of post transformer boom and then just seeing like you can ride in V13 uh the Tesla FSD product, right? Or you can go to China and ride in these and you're like this is it. Yeah. this like can't be there was a I mean you're not talking about three years ago there's a huge debate on if you know end to end in the many ways end is marketed uh it's it's a marketing you know phrase as much as a technical phrase um end to end cameraheavy systems where they are they're going to are they going to be able to perform I think the big big thing so now we're on the same page that autonomy is definitely going to happen and when you're you know playing in the ecosystem you also know kind of which way it's going to happen. Yeah. And so now the question is who's going to monetize this and uh who's going to take advantage of it and you know the Whimo stuff is super impressive but it is worth putting an asterisk the business model hasn't been figured out yet. The Tesla business model has been figured out. And so people kind of interchange these and this and they often talk poorly about the Tesla system by saying oh it's dangerous and it's not as good as a Whimo. Yeah. But the like much more likely to continue to exist. And the big story of the many dozens of autonomy companies actually isn't I mean they know as much as us and we know as much as them and simply because we recruit many dozens of people from you know I think we're probably Whimo's biggest employer outside of Whimo and Cruz and Tesla all all of these these organizations. So, it's not like there's this false view that there's some secret in how to build self-driving tech. Actually, within the business, everybody knows how to build it. And it's just like, you know, in these podcasts where you're always going to stay fairly high level, and you're not going to get into that, you know, into that depth. But generally, the ecosystems converge on what those techniques will be. That was not the case just four years ago. A lot of debate. And then as we saw, okay, there's a convergence. This is when you really, you know, move. Yeah. Makes sense. You folks basically waited for that moment in time where the techniques and approach is crystallized and you're like, "Okay, now's our moment in time to really enter the market until because we don't have to do the research or we do different types of research, but we can kind of wait for state-of-the-art and just jump straight. I mean, we're really, you know, in automotive uh uh terms, there's research, advanced engineering, and production. We've always kind of hovered around advanced engineering where it's like you don't want to just try things and have a group of 50 to 80 researchers, you know, publishing papers. Uh but at the same time you can't just be like some system integrator. One of the things that I find really interesting about um the adoption of generative AI is the bar is often higher for these AI systems than it is for people in terms of how good the output has to be and um it's kind of striking right uh so if you ask somebody like how should I do a series A pitch? Yeah. You'll take whatever they say because there's confidence and then like you know you do it in Chanty and you're like no actually this isn't right. You look at self-driving Yeah. and you look at the safety record, the claim from many of these companies is that you uh decrease death and injury dramatically by just adopting self-driving. And yet from a regulatory perspective, there's all sorts of hurdles to adoption. What is the right bar for safety for autonomous systems for you know these like should it be at human level? Should it be dramatically better? Like how much better? Yeah, there's a colloquial and then there's like a regulatory answer and and the colloquial answer my view is and that many people in the industry is um most of those systems are pretty good right now like they're already uh certainly Whimo if you just you use proxy metrics like meanantime to disengagement on a Whimo that's tens of thousands of miles 30 also like I guess people measure the number of accidents, injuries, fatalities per mile, right? Yeah, exactly. So like all of those who way better, not even kind of close. And frankly speaking, a lot of these L2 plus systems are a lot better. We're in a capitalist environment and there's liability involved. And so the question really fundamentally emerges is who's liable for what? And so in the historic debate of roughly what you have is like am I the driver who's responsible or is the vehicle responsible? And that can be actually boiled down to is there somebody in the driver's seat? Yeah. when you're when you know the Whimo has taken that view and a Whimo engineer would always say well FSD is nothing like us that you can't have a Tesla with nobody in the driver's seat Elon is trying to try to change but there's a liability piece of it but separate from that I mean the media headline is always Whimo causes an accident versus Whimo saved n lives or Tesla caused an accident versus Tesla and so I think it's human nature as well we can't be afraid of our own shadow progress requires some of that risk and I think part of having The key thing is the risk is lower. In other words, lower. Um it seems like a lot of the media headlines are actually the opposite where there's a purposeful amplification of danger even if the danger is decreased, right? And we've seen that in a number of other instances too. So it does it does feel like a purposeful approach um by the people writing the news. I think part of the issue is that um sometimes the uh mistakes that the autonomy systems make, they're just not the same mistakes that a human would make. And so then when uh it makes the the news, a human will see that and be like, well that's that's completely crazy. Like how could that happen? But it's it's more of a result of the technology itself. Yeah. But I I I think you know going back to the journalist kind of media view. We are what our incentives are, right? And the incentives there. A journalist writing nine people died of pedestrian fatalities last night in America. Well, that happens every single night. Sure. It's not interesting. And so it's just just trying to get clicks. And the clicks are you know the Uber ATG car in Arizona killed somebody is just people talk about that all the time happened years ago and it's like you know how many hundreds of people have died in America from human driven vehicles but that's on the let's say on the cultural colloquial side on the regulatory side the issue that you we have in broadly speaking mature developed economies is the bureaucracy is the bureaucracy's goal is to you know create more bureaucracy. Yeah. And so a place like the national transportation authority is going to department of transportation is going to say hey for airbags we did this so this new technology comes and we definitely need to regulate it in this way. Take a more extreme example take a country like Spain or Italy where the government is really you know uh very bureaucratic. Imagine you take Italy and you just remove the government. I'm not saying you know a revolution but remove the government and say we're going to build these government institutions for the things they need today like that defragging and that the garbage and maintenance that garbage collection never happens and these systems so it's like a lot of it is just illogical that makes sense and you're talking about the programming term garbage collection and yeah exactly and yeah I would just add that uh like garbage collection these autonomous systems they they will be significantly safer than human drivers and provably so. And actually a lot of the technology that we develop as a company contributes to this across the industry and we do a lot of work in verification validation which is around this like provability aspect of that something is safe. But it's never going to be perfect like you can fundamentally uh you can easily design traffic scenarios where the autonomous vehicle gets into an accident by no fault of its own. And so you can't have that bar, right? It's it has to be imagine this alien shows up to the planet and it's like there's two ways of transporting people. One is this this one that that the computer does and it virtually is perfect and the other one is this like half asleep 18-year-old teenager going to Starbucks shift after partying all night. Yeah. Like no no no objective you know would would pick the the teenager. The same thing I think even you look at like AI in the in the uh like why is chat GBT so loved search exists? there's all this legacy like like it's just a better product. What do you think is a timeline to large scale adoption of uh autonomy? So obviously Whimo is growing really quickly right now. Um Tesla's continuing to push forward on different autonomous systems. Like how many years away do you think we are from general availability? Yeah, general and framework's changing from a regulatory or other perspect. So it's just kind of very very nuanced question because it it it's different in different countries. So let's let's kind of bound it to America for now and then we can talk talk with the rest of the world. Um, every vehicle manufacturer in America that ships a real amount of cars is building some version of a Tesla competitor. Um, so I think general availability on a FSD like system over the next 5 years is going to be common just like navigation systems. Now how good those systems are and what the price points are, those will all define the breadth of those features. Whimo will continue to expand cities. I think we're seeing Whimo in 2025 what they what was promised in like 2018 2019 which is we're going to do 40 CD rollouts and that's going to be the next you know two or three years. The example really to think about this is let's say we're sitting in 2007 the iPhone just launched and you asked me how fast are we going to see the iPhone in lots of people's hands. It's like slow slow and then suddenly everybody has it. I think there's going to be some version of that. One, you know, again, anecdotal example is I go to LA and uh, you know, it's not Silicon Valley. Yeah. Everybody knows about self-driving. That was not the case like 12 months ago. Yeah. And why is that? Cuz the Whimos are everywhere. And so it's like for the first time when I explain applied intuition, people are like, "Oh, I get it. Before they were just like, you know, all these like almost like lite kind of responses." And as every person who sits in a Whimo, they just they convert over to, "Okay, self-driving is a thing." the natural next step is okay why doesn't my car have some version of this in a passenger car. So I think like the whole the the whole window of expectations for self-driving was like 20 let's say 15 to 2020 and that's really like 2025 to 2030 but I think general availability is coming coming quickly. I would just add like as an engineer I think the next 5 years are probably the most exciting period imaginable because whether it's automotive defense uh so think planes uh ground vehicles boats uh all general robotics like all of these things right now we don't see a a real rate limit to how fast we can advance technology like we're just making progress every single day on all these things and we don't see a point where that progress is going to Yeah, it's definitely like it's it's funny from like an engineering perspective. It's it's it's sad in somehow that like all the people got excited like when it wasn't like this is the best time to work on self-driving like it's ready it's ready to go mainstream and frankly speaking to monetize all the billions spent on cruise and Argo and those companies all of that didn't go for nothing that's in people's heads and those people continue to work on the technology so I think it's a super super exciting it's kind of a magical moment in time in the industry and that that's true of autonomous systems and obviously it's true with all the sort language models and chat GPTs and all the different maybe maybe extrapolating from that question is like when will this stuff be completely commoditized where it's like your expectation for self-driving is $0 I expect it for free like right now when you get in a car you're not like carplay I need to pay like $3 a month to no it's my phone is just being projected in the heads-up display as I expect it for free um I think at 2030 2035 you're going to have deep downward pricing pressure like to where it's like the expectation is going to be close to free and I think the not to pick on Whimo a lot but it's just easy one cuz we're in San Francisco see all these cars around and it's it's um it's continue to to still exist that's a big question right you spend 12 15 billion dollars on developing this technology and it commoditizes before you monetize it that's a super super scary situation and uh I think Whimo's public offering and Whimo's business model um are going to be big big questions. If they pull it off, it's phenomenal. It feels very transformative in all sorts of ways in terms of you know the magical experience of getting in the car and you know everything else. I think they've done a really good job and I mean I would go on a limit and say like the self-driving revolution will have as much of an impact as the LLM revolution is happening. Like we we because not everyone grew up in Detroit. You don't appreciate these little things like the entire all the way where everything's designed where hospitals are how park it's all based on cars. Cars are this like it's this invisible thing that it's like electricity this invisible thing around you. It's impacting every single thing. Can you imagine going for a month and not interacting with a car? Yeah. Or a week. Mhm. Yeah. No, it's interesting because I remember um when all the first wave of self-driving stuff was happening, there'd be these uh dinners and conversations around self-driving adoption. At the time, people were really worried about truck drivers being displaced. And I remember meeting with different Congress people to talk about that specific issue that they're worried about. And um to your point, I think people have kind of underthought the degree to which urban design is in the modern world designed around cars. It's where do you put the parking lot? Everything. Um, grocery stores, how far they are from neighborhoods, all of these, how big can they be? How small should they be? If you look at a New York and why New York is the way New York is, it's because actually the car is not the main thing of your life. It's actually the subway and walking and it's it's there's no other place like New York. Yeah. Yeah. And eventually what you should end up with is lots somewhere outside of a city with a bunch of cars and then when you need a car you push a button and it comes in and it grabs you and it takes you wherever you want or and you probably need fewer vehicles. I think that that's where there's a debate. I think you see this with mobile phones is as calling became free. Remember calling used to be minutes and text used to cost 10 cents a pop. Text and calling haven't gone down. They've gone way through the roof. Orders of magnitude higher than we ever communicated in 20 years ago. Only 20 years ago, not a long time ago. So there is a version that in 20 years from now we have an order of magnitude higher. Imagine if everyone had a private jet. Mhm. Do you think people are flying less around the world? More. They're flying a lot more. So I think there's a version that you have a lot more uh actual miles driven. Yeah. And the inside cabin of the car can change dramatically, right? You can work out in the back if you want to if you're in the reg. But that doesn't necessarily mean there's more traffic. It doesn't necessarily mean you need more parking lots. You could actually I'm, you know, I'm in the optimistic view of the world. And this is the again my view. The issue with with Europe and sometimes is instead of the knee-jerk reaction being no, the knee-jerk reaction should be yes. This will usher more productivity. It brings uh you know we shouldn't have huge percentage points of our cities just empty parking lots. You make those make those parks is really nice and I think self-driving can can help beyond the just it's literally less humans die. So you've kind of laid out your vision in terms of autonomy and sort of the reworking of cities and some really large scale things that are very exciting that are coming and how you guys are going to help power that uh for the industry. How do you think about using AI in other parts of your business? Yeah. And specifically on tooling and and in in the vehicle OSC or let's say inc cabin experience um number one the way software is being developed we see this through all the you know um the the coding assisting tool assistant tools all of that needs to happen in automotive and these other industries. So we're at the heart of that. That's why we're changing our name to Windsurf Automotive. very lucky. Yeah, on that there is a lot of very interesting constraints to the problem when you talk about building software for vehicles. And so I think we as a company were in a really interesting spot where we both have the AI technology and we also have the expertise and all of these really interesting constraints on the software that's actually being developed. Um so I think you'll see some interesting stuff from us. Yeah. And then on the on the vehicle OS side or inc cabin side, you know, the vision there is a pretty straightforward which we're working on now, which is you take a, you know, a mining operator and he walks up to his Kamasu dirt mover, this giant machine that, you know, moves dirt basically 24/7. That machine should know who that person is. And as they enter, that person can have that, you know, conversation with the machine because the machine sees it. It sees the world around it. It's multimodal and it can sense it. What really happens on a mind in terms of safety is a little bit of intelligence goes a long way. And so what you're starting to see is this emergence of this teaming. Uh and I think like that type of AI experience is I think is more fundamentally important than even just getting you know Whimo going or just getting out to because that's the hidden part of the economy whether it's writing software for the engineering tools that write software for safety critical systems or the stuff that happens beyond your eyes and that's the stuff I think we're we're super excited about without even going into defense. Defense is its own universe. Uh the short version of what you know what we're seeing in in defense is has been talked about by others but uh we're certainly experiencing it is defense is moving from a one person one machine to one person to many machines. Uhhuh. The way to think about intelligence within these other domains and dominions isn't just well how can you use an LLM? Sure. You know there it really is like well what does intelligence look like for a war fighter in the field who has a couple hundred drones? Yeah. And how does he say okay I need this there and I need it fast now to get information from other you know other parts of the force and other forces and other countries to actually make that decision very very quickly. Yeah, the problem space is all about autonomy for the individual system. It's about collaborative autonomy for the swarm and then it's about the the comms and the RF between all of these systems and and how the data is actually moved between them. And so really really interesting problems and uh yeah, we've got some really interesting like you know we think vehicle intelligence trademark is is like this. Yeah, I you know it's funny you know as founder for the founders who are listening it's super rare to actually work on stuff that you you know you really love. And it's no disrespect to people who work on like the dentist CRM. Sure. But it's like a lot more fun than dentist CRM because it's like taking AI in a way which is not just the chatbot which is great for all the reasons it is but it's it's like beyond that. So you know one of the things that I think is unique about applied intuition is you also have a very large and sort of deep bench on the design side. Yeah. And you think deeply about these sort of forward-looking experiences both in cabin and more broadly. Could you talk a little bit more about both that team but also that future that you're imagining that's coming? Yeah, I think if you you know in the in the chatbt world there's some design there obviously and and it's significant but once you're truly like multimodal in a inc cabin consumer passenger vehicle there's lots of screens and just the way you interact it's not just a button and a voice and so still some some of that work is under wraps but um you know we we're doing real work there if people are particularly interested in that especially from a designer's perspective and you're tired of doing like login screens for like this like or like you know spending 6 years on just changing the shade of the sign in uh so we're really working on fundamental experiences like HMI in the way that I think a lot of people at CMU when they're doing their very deep experiences where you walk into the car it somehow recognizes you the seat moves into place for you versus somebody else who drives it sometimes like everything auto adjusts your playlist comes on whatever it is it kind of logs you in yeah and just like how it interacts with you. Design isn't only pixels, it's an experience, right? Um, yeah. So, I I think design is design is a huge area for us as well. And then I guess from a a team or hiring perspective to your point on great things to work on, are there specific types of profiles you're looking for or just hiring across the board or how are you thinking about that right now? We're fortunate enough to be hiring across the board. The the uh obviously I think I think we've we hire from all let's say the the spectrum of like pure researchers all the way to folks who are working on the other end of just like infrastructure implementation. I think we have like over a hundred roles available. Yeah. And of course, everyone, ourselves included, is is always looking for great AI talent. Uh so that that goes without saying, but um we also have, I would say, an extremely deep appreciation for just really strong software engineers that are also just deep in the the operating systems and and let's say systems engineering realm. Um we work on stuff that's very important and very very technical. And so yeah, people who like hard problems like to work at applied. Yes, our our company is um it's something we're proud of. is like 82% software engineering is it's extremely concentrated it's a very very technical company um and we build products you know we're not doing services and things like that so that that allows you know if you like that kind of stuff you like building products um you know I think I think we're an interesting place we might not be that cool though I think there's got I got I got the car jacket that's about it last time you'll see this it's like a costume. Yeah. The best evidence it's a costume is I'm uncomfortable in it. It's like a morning like a clown outfit. You look good. Great. Well, thank you so much for joining me today. Yeah. Thanks for having us. Thanks for having us. Awesome. Find us on Twitter at No Priors Pod. Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you want to see our faces. Follow the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever you listen. That way you get a new episode every week. And sign up for emails or find transcripts for every episode at no-briers.com. [Music]
