# No Priors Ep. 115 | With Glean Founder and CEO Arvind Jain

- **Channel:** https://www.youtube.com/@NoPriorsPodcast
- **Video ID:** qETse-qotxU
- **Upload Date:** 20250515
- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qETse-qotxU

## Transcript

[Applause] Hi listeners, welcome to No Priors. This week we're speaking to Arvin Jane, CEO and co-founder of Glean. Glean is an AI powered enterprise search and knowledge management platform which allows you to not only access all the different internal documents and Slacks and other things that your company may have, but also allows you to enhance workplace productivity by using different applications. On top of that, prior to Glean, Arvin had a really storied career. He co-ounded Rubric. He was early at Google, worked on search there, amongst other things. And so we're very excited to have him here today. Garvin, welcome to No Priors. Thank you for having me. So I'm really excited about this. Um I've known you for years and all's known you for maybe 15 more years than that. Um you're an amazing repeat successful founder with Rubric and Glean. Uh I want to start by just asking you about search. Um you've been a search guy, you know, since before it was cool. For a long time when it felt like not solved but not as dynamic. Um, how broadly has search changed because of LMS? I've been working on search for almost 30 years now. Long long time. The paradigm has completely shifted. I think I would say that search had been static for a long time. It was this keyword based paradigm like you know people ask questions, you find words and trying to find them in documents and bring them up you know uh to the users. But LMS have completely changed it like know it's it has actually the main thing it has done for search is that it has allowed us to really deeply understand uh a question that a user is asking and similarly it allows us to very deeply understand what a document is about and you can actually you know match people's questions with you know the right information conceptually and and that gives us so much so much more power it's not brittle anymore and I think it's been a it's it's been a foundational technology to to really evolve search into these new experiences that you've seen these days, you know, where you can go far beyond just surfacing a few links, you know, to uh to an end user to to actually deeply understand their questions and and answering them uh for them directly using using the knowledge that you have. If I remember correctly, Glean got started in the more traditional search world and then as these foundation models and these LLMs have come to the four, you've really kind of shifted how you think about both the capability set that you provide and how you approach things. Could you tell us a bit more about how you started off building the systems and how that's shifted and then how you've kind of mapped new use cases against it because you're now effectively like this really interesting platform that can be used in all sorts of ways inside of an organization around the corpus of information they have. But I just even love to hear the technology transition like how did you think about that? When did it happen? I think you really live through it in a in a really meaningful way. We know we had good timing I would say. So like you know we started thinking about building clean in uh late 2018. started the company early 2019 and so interesting thing is that transformers as a technology had emerged by then the whole world was not talking about it uh but in search teams like at Google you know we saw the power of embeddings and how it could fundamentally change search and so so we had that luxury to actually see this in action so the version one of our product actually already used transformers uh for semantic you know matching like you know we didn't have these terms like nobody used to call it vector search you know we didn't have rag like these terms had not been invented yet uh or generative AI for that matter and so like internally we used to call it embedding search uh and was a core core technology that we started out with so you were super early to it actually yeah and you know look you know the models at the time were were not like as powerful as today like you know we you know we started with this uh bird uh model that Google had put in open domain which was trained on all of the all of the internet's you know data and knowledge and we would then take those models and then for every customer of ours, we'd actually build custom embeddings, you know, on their business content and then that would sort of power the semantic part of the search. But remember like you know search as a technique there's a lot of focus on embeddings and vector search over the last few years but that's actually only one part of uh building a good search system because you think about an enterprise uh imagine a company that has been around for a few decades you know they have tons and tons of information spread across many many different systems a lot of that information has become obsolete you know now because it was you know written like you know many years back and so when you build a search product. It's not just enough to say that hey I'm going to understand if people you know somebody's question and I'm going to match it with um the right information sort of semantically or conceptually matches what the user is asking well you got to solve for other problems too you got to actually pick information that's correct today that is up to date that has some authority like you know somebody who's an expert on this topic has actually written that document you have to do all of those other things too to actually uh truly sort of you know pick the right knowledge um and bring it back to people. So, so we started with you know building the product in in that shape and form. Um, it was a very different product actually like nobody had actually searched enterprise search as a problem before. In fact like you know the interesting thing that I remember is that you know even though I was coming off of a successful company like you know with rubric you know we had good success I don't think people really wanted to invest in enterprise search or me you know for that matter because you know this problem was not exciting. It was traditionally a very bad problem, right? So there's all these search engines fast. I remember when the early Google days was sort of an enterprise search engine I think based in Norway. Like there's lots of attempts at this. Lot of attempts and no successes. Why do you think it didn't work? Cuz it it felt like an awful market. It was like a graveyard like you know of all these companies that tried to solve the problem and it didn't. Part of it was just that I think search is a hard problem in an enterprise like even getting access to all the data that you want to search. It was such a big problem in the pre-SAS world. The there was no way to sort of go into those data centers, figure out where the servers were, where the storage systems were, try to connect with information in them. It was a big it was a big challenge. So SAS actually solved that issue. So like search products like most of them most of those companies started in the pre-SAS world, they failed uh cuz you could just couldn't build a turnkey product. But SAS actually allowed you to to actually build something, you know, uh which is my insight was that like look, you know, the enterprise world has changed. We have these SAS systems now and SAS systems don't have versions like everybody all customers have the same version you know that they are open they're interoperable you can actually hit them with APIs and get all the content I felt that the biggest problem was actually solved which was that I could actually easily go and bring all the enterprise information and data in one place uh and build this unified search system on top. So that was actually a big unlock. So it was the rise of these connectors and APIs internally. So you're using Google Docs instead of older school systems or using Slack or using these new tools that now provide you access to the data or underlying content. You guys must remember Google search appliance. Yeah. The idea of like I need to slurp your data continuously into a hardware appliance in order to actually do search is ludicrous. It was a challenge. Um the you know search as a and by the way the origins of glean is so at rubric you know we had this problem like you know we grew fast. We had lot of information across 300 different SAS systems and nobody could find anything in the company and people were complaining about in our pulse surveys and I and I was you know I always run it in my startups and so this is a complaint that you know that came to me like I had to solve it so I tried to buy a search product and I I realized there's nothing to buy. I mean that's that's really the origins of how how green got started as a company. And so that was like you know one big issue like you know the S SAS made it easy for to actually connect you know your enterprise data and knowledge to a search system. So that actually made it possible for us to for the very first time build a turnkey product. But there are a lot of other advances as well you know one is you know like look you know businesses have so much information and data. One interesting you know fact one of our largest customers they have more than 1 billion documents inside their company. Now hear this, you know when El and I, you know, when we were working on search at Google, you know, in 2004, the entire internet was actually 1 billion documents. You know, there's a massive explosion of content like inside businesses. So you have to build scalable systems and you couldn't build like a system like that before in the pre-cloud era. I would spend all my time just trying to build that scalable distributed system which you know we don't have to anymore because of thanks to you know all the great cloud technologies. And then of course transformers like you know that's really the real the big unlock you know that we had was that we could actually understand enterprise information more deeply and was very necessary in the enterprise compared to on the web. On the web even if you don't have good semantic understanding there is so much that you can learn from people's behavior cuz you know you have a billion people you know coming and using your product in the enterprise you don't have that luxury. So you have to sort of like you know make make up for that you know lack of signals from users um you know with other techniques and transform is one of them. It sounds like you feel a combination of I'd call it like more traditional IR and search techniques and embeddings is is relevant. Do you think that persists like where would you want bespoke infra or you know signals like freshness and authority or like how much do models just do in the end? Yeah, I mean I think there's always this thought of that like you know the models will have near infinite context windows and you can just give them everything and they can figure things out automatically. But I don't I don't think you know like we're anywhere close to you know that happening. I I'll give you an example. Let's say that models are mimicking human intelligence right so they're actually getting more and more capable of like you know how we work like humans. uh but as a human like you know imagine like you know if I were to actually give you like let's say I give you a question and then I say that hey here's you know here's everything like you know in a completely non-organized fashion I give you like a whole bunch of like 1 million documents and and and let's imagine you have you know the memory powers and speed but it still just feels like you know a very complicated thing like it's very hard to make sense of information that is for example being given to you out of order like you know I give you one document that is something from today something from 4 months back something from 3 then something again from two days back. If I give you like you know information in a in a in a manner where you know where it's sort of not organized in any shape or form then as a human you're going to have a lot of difficulty reasoning over it. So we think about the models the same way. There is a good amount of uh work that you have to do and present the information uh to the model in some you know in some organized fashion. That's when they're going to actually do a much better job reading that information, reasoning over it and giving you the answers. And sure like you know you can actually give them more and more over time but still you know it matters like you know how how you provide them with the right information. Now that you have this sort of corpus of information right you basically aggregated all the internal documents of a company which in itself is incredibly useful just for search but you've also gone down the route of like enabling applications to be built on top of it in different ways. Could you talk a bit about that and what are some of the common use cases that you're seeing? So we started with you know this vision of building a Google in your work life. Um but then as models got better developed like these reasoning and generation capabilities. So first like you know it changed our product and like our new product like green assistant you know it sort of looks and feels more like chat GPD. Um so instead of like you know me going asking questions and seeing you know bunch of links going back to me you know now of course you converse with glean you ask questions and it works just like charg you come and ask question is going to actually take all of the world's knowledge and also additionally you know it's going to take all of your internal companies you know data and knowledge and use that in a safe and secure manner like knowing who you are and what information you can really use within the company uh to answer questions back for you. So, so that's sort of like the first um first progression in terms of our product like you know we evolved from being a Google to to you know something that looks more like chat GPD more powerful version of chat GPD inside your company as you build that this green assistant actually you can think of it more like a personal assistant that you're actually giving to every employee in your company it's a tool you know it's your sidekick you know it's always available to help you with whatever questions or tasks you have it's going to use all of your company's context and data to help you you know with with your work but you know businesses are actually a lot more more interested in not in that but in actually thinking about how they can transform their company with AI how they can take specific business processes you know where they're spending a lot of money uh and how how do they bring automation in that with AI so we've been we've been asked like before agents became uh you know the the talk of the like you know of the day and like you know everybody's of course building agents uh but early last year when agents had not yet taken off people were asking us for that hey give you know we need we need to build more curated applications you know using this data platform that you have so as an example HR teams you know would come to us and say that look we love green assistant people come in there ask questions about you know benefits and you know BO and vacation policy and whatnot and and it work it works great but sometimes it uses you know content that's not authorized or blessed by And if somebody's coming and asking questions on people related topics, we want Glean to only use you know the curated content that you know our people team has created uh and we wanted to behave in a particular way particular bone and all of that. So so that's a that was a request that we started to get last year that like you know can we create create more specific curated experiences you know function by function for you know for different use cases. So we started to build that and we were not calling them agents we were calling them apps. Uh now of course like you know the people think of you know them as more as agents because it's no longer just you know asking questions and getting answers but you want you know these these specific functional experiences to to actually replace a business process which also involves doing some work for um you know not just answering questions but actually you know doing some work in those systems. Arvin, when you talked um about you know access to the the right data with the right authority and also like it really begs the question of like access control right in a platform like Glean when you have all this unstructured data um uh this seems much more complicated. What is like your overall stance or how how you think this is going to work in the future? Yeah. Well, so look, enterprise information in some sense, you know, it's governed and it's protected. Um, you like most of the knowledge, I should say like 90% of the knowledge inside the company is private in some shape or form inside within within your company, right? You'll have a document that maybe is private to you or or you shared with a few other people. But that's the nature of u you know enterprise knowledge. Uh that's that's the fundamental sort of uh way like it works. And you can't take you can't actually build like for example a model inside your enterprise and dump all of your internal company's data and knowledge into it and then make that model available to everybody in the company because if you do that you're leaking information like you know inside your company you're letting somebody in engineering team you know see sensorless stuff you know which probably only HR team should be able to see every sample. So any AI experiences that you build inside the company has it has to think you know about security and governance and permissions like you at a fundamental level and that's what we do in glean. So when we connect with all these different systems um you know inside your enterprise we you know if we index you know a particular document from Google drive or a conversation from Slack we also keep track of you know who are the users can actually access that information and this is fundamental like any access to data that's going to happen through our platform is going to actually match like you know the users have to be signed in and we will actually only let them use information that they have permissions for and and this is this is important uh as a problem to solve like you know unless If you have infrastructure like that, you cannot roll out AI safely inside your device. I learn a lot from people who work on search, especially like search with any sort of scale because you get all sorts of weird user behavior. Um, and so related to your idea of, you know, us with our personal assistant team, what are some behaviors you see from end users in terms of how they're using glean or AI in general that you think we should just do more of, right? like I you know I I'm always very surprised when I learn from Google people about just like the behaviors around navigational search and how many are one-word queries or what the popular queries are and those sorts of patterns and so I'm sure you you see like glean and AI super users one of the biggest surprises for me um I always felt that you know we're building such an intuitive product you know the it's like it's literally there's no UI you know there's one box and you ask question you put in a search and and and what's the big deal like why do you have learn how to use this. Um, and and we realized that as we added more and more of these natural language capabilities and you know the ability for you to actually ask a really long question like you know paragraph long you know uh set of instructions that are given to us um and we realize that people won't do it like you know I think everybody has been trained over the last 20 years to actually type in you know one or two keywords like Google has sort of taught us you know you know on what search can do. So with search we never had a problem like you know we launched a product they like immediate high usage uh nobody was confused like how to use the product with with assistant people didn't know what to do with it some people with you know you more curiosity and they will they will ask all kinds of you know questions that we couldn't actually answer um for example somebody says that hey what should I do in my life so we so I think but anyways coming back to this that that was one of the key learnings is that AI is is actually very unintuitive for most people you have to really ex expose to them these capabilities in a in a sort of a incremental fashion you know like some things you know which sort of are more meaningful to their day-to-day work for example if I'm an engineer um like you know prompt the user sometimes that like look you can actually learn about a new piece of technology like I can actually give you know create a two-page tutorial for you right now um and and you sort of have to understand like you know what people's you know people like you know what their core work is and and then you have to actually give them these you sort of prompts like prompts for them to sort of start experimenting and get excited about like you trying something out with AI. One thing in fact which I would also add here is like a lot of time you know with AI businesses are excited like you know they have a lot of dollars to spend on AI and uh but they're all like also asking for ROI um that well like you know going to make all this you know investment what are the returns like what are the efficiency gains you know that I'm I'm going to be getting or what are the topline you know improvements that I can make to my business uh there's a lot of focus on that and I think one thing that often gets overlooked is education because you know the world is changing. Imagine like you know three years from now you wake up you're the CEO of a large enterprise. What do you want to see in your workforce? You you actually want to see people like who are trained and are AI first like you know they're experts they know how to leverage the strengths of AI cuz this is a difficult technology like you know it's not perfect it's not easy. Uh it makes mistakes it hallucinates but yet it's powerful and if you become an expert um you can get a lot done with it. That has to be like the objective today is like you know with like as leaders think about AI how do you sort of give people tools uh that sort of motivate and motivate them to bring AI in their day-to-day work you had amazing career between being early at Google starting Rubric now starting Glean and running it what was unexpected about doing Glean because you'd gotten to so much scale you've done such amazing things in in the context of Rubric what was hard or unexpected that are just very different about Glean that you that you didn't anticipate. From a product side, the one of the most interesting things for me was like how hard was it to actually uh roll the product out to our customers. We had a very different journey um like in you know Rubric compared to clean like in Rubric were an established market like there were budgets dollars and you had to actually replace an old technology with a new technology. Um here we were in a market where uh we had no uh budgets. There was no concept of buying a search product in the enterprise and and everybody thought that yeah like this is an important problem but I like you know it's not a line item in my business priorities you know it's it's a it's a vitamin it's a pain killer. People are living without it. Well yeah that's just true. I mean you live without something that you don't have like you know that's by definition you know you know you know true. So we so we had a lot of challenge like we had to do a lot of evangelism to actually get the right like you know um folks like you know who wanted to be um the innovators like for them to actually make that bold call and and actually buy a product that's you know they're not used to buying. So that's that's sort of first part of it like you know you have to create the market for this which actually was difficult and second which was actually very interesting one is you know we we our product was actually working well like you know was it was doing good search you know letting people find things but then we started to hear from businesses that oh I'm scared of good search I want I don't want a good search product in my company because I have all these governance gaps I have like you know sensitive information all all over the place and you know now people are discovering these things we launched like you know for example you know people found like salaries of other people you know there was like in one of our customers somebody found a sensitive M&amp;A dog that was you know or something that was you know not yet happened uh and you start like so people like you actually were very very scared of actually having good search so we had to actually like that that was interesting challenge we did some good work you know doing it safely and securely but you know you don't have good governance and now like you know we don't we can't sell because the product is so good it seems like LLM be able to help with that, right? In terms of classifying documents and surfacing, hey, this one may be sensitive, do you want to secure it, etc. Yes, in fact, exactly right like know so we actually were forced to build that. We were forced to actually go and above and beyond respecting permissions in individual systems to knowing who you are, what you're asking like you should have the right to even ask the question or like you know when the information comes back like does it you know feel you know safe enough for us to show it to you. So we actually in fact like you know in that sense you know we actually end up end ended up becoming a security product like a lot of companies actually buy us to fix governance in their sort of you know data and systems and become AI ready like AI ready for the green search product uh the green assistant but also for all the other AI products that you can buy inside the enterprise. So that was so that was actually a very interesting journey. But then for personally on you know for me um you know at rubric you know I I didn't actually I wasn't this I wasn't the CEO uh I ran R&amp;D as one of the founders of the company and here I had to actually learn how to become a CEO and I don't think I've learned it yet and like you know that's a that's a constant you know challenge and like you know learnings that I go through because fundamentally like you I'm still an engineer everything I do like you know like that's the mindset that I have. So, so growing growing, you know, out of that into like, you know, being able to run a large business, you know, that's a that's a personal transformation that I'm going through. One thing that I think is striking is that um from a go to market perspective, you all have really focused on big enterprises, right? And you mentioned some of these enterprise data needs. A lot of people always just want to do PLG and you've really done sort of the top down sale and it's been incredibly successful. You've done it twice now, right? Because Rubric was obviously that as well. Could you talk a little bit more about when it makes sense to do big direct enterprise deals versus appeals motion and how you think about that as you build businesses because I think it's very differentiated and most people just can't pull that off. So I'm curious about how you think about when to do it and then how to do it. Just to be candidate clean the when we started I mean my dream was to do PLG. I'm an engineer and I wanted the company to have engineers and then product should sell itself you know on the web. Who doesn't want that? It was it was something that you know was a desire for us. Uh but the problem is like you know with our product the it is by definition a a companywide product like it's not like you know we cannot offer the product to one individual inside a company even one person you know their their search needs require us to actually search over all the entire company's information for them. So it's it's expensive. You have to actually index you know all of a company's data and knowledge. And so we never had that concept of that you know we could make it available to one or two or 10 people inside the company. So we're sort of forced just structurally to actually build in that fashion where it is it is you know like enterprise it is um like you know we roll the product out companywide you know to every employee um that that's what makes it cost effective but like you know coming back to your question the standard approach I think that companies prefer now is that like they think of PLG as basically lead genen as a funnel you sort of nurture and expand using you know enterprise sales motion. So the right recipe for me like you know if I had a choice I would I would actually start both the mo motions simultaneously like I would actually say that look you know for the first 3 years I'm I'm going to actually focus you know uh on just being PLG and then bring the enterprise states later cuz you're actually leaving a lot you're leaving a lot on the table. Uh timing timing matters always and and so you have to sort of like start the start start the motions I think at the same time. Arvin, one thing that we have talked about that I feel like must have been um I mean hard. The priors on this market were not great, right? And we talked a little bit through the rationale of like you know you feeling like you you really saw the problem internally anyway and understand that there were these uh sort of architectural foundational things that had changed in terms of movement to SAS and API based integrations and such. But still I I think it's a really a question of advice for founders or maybe people joining startups like you when should you agree with the priors on like something is a bad market or or how should you think about that question? So I'll share a few things on this. Um number one I think as engineers like you know there's there are first of all there are always doubts like you know the more you look at prior the more you're going to actually likely going to actually ultimately kill your own idea. There is a lot like you know sometimes everything's been tried. Yeah. Yeah. everything has been tried like so you know a lot of things have failed and and I think there are like for any given idea like you know there are 10 reasons why it won't work um like as you start to go into details sometimes like a more simpler approach is helpful you know which is uh well there's a problem like you know you talk to people they have and they feel this pain and which clearly means that nobody is actually yet solving you know that the pain exists and so then don't go into details anymore just do it things will just get figured over time. So like at least you know for me like it was actually unusual for me like I'm I'm engineered by training myself and I'm I'm like you know I'm naturally trained to question and like there's a lot of self-doubt in my mind. So I don't know what happened to me when we started clean because you know there were all all these people saying like know not do it and and somehow they couldn't like you know they couldn't actually discourage me like you know I just felt that this was exciting problem. Um I you know I was I was I knew everybody in the world you know has this issue like you know even at Google like it was a big joke you know always we had internally like you know all of us were spending all of our time making it easy for people to find things but not us internally at Google super hard to find anything inside the company. So so I think I I s somehow like found that conviction I was sort of being lazy not willing to go into the details and like look at all those priors and just like you know just just do it just solve it. I mean I think that's that's what I think like worked for us in in this particular case. I feel like Glean had like three big components to it that all came together that you mentioned earlier, right? There was the need that you identified just as uh somebody running it for your own company and to your point it goes back to Google that this was a need and every company that I've talked to has always wanted to build search and directories and all this stuff. The second thing is this rise of connectors and APIs in the context of existing enterprise software that everybody's using so you can extract the data more easily. And the third thing was the big shift in terms of the underlying technology right the shift in terms of what is capable of search these foundation models these embeddings etc given um the latter two are there other big opportunities that lead to work on that you've kind of identified as really interesting areas that suddenly are tractable again I think for us right now the focus remains on the two core products that we have so we you know the way we think about our company is that we have this really powerful end user uh AI you know assistant that helps every person like you know work differently in the future and then we have this Asian platform that you can use to actually bring you know AI inject AI into you know every one of your business process make them better make them more efficient and and I think we we're making big promises on both to our customers the way describe and pitch our product to our customers is the following you know come to glean ask any questions or give it any task green will use all of the world's knowledge and all of your internal companies data and knowledge in a safe and secure way and answer those questions for you or complete those tasks. But actually I just promised to you that green does everything. You don't have to work anymore. We're long long ways from actually even solving you know that you know the pitch that I just mentioned to you like you know I think we have to understand um knowledge properly. We have to like you know pick you know the right you know the correct information throw away the old information. We have you know there's so many challenges there. There are so many issues uh people talk about hallucinations as a big problem with AI models. You know we feel like you know a bigger problem for us is not even hallucinations. It's about like you know most of the times you can't even you know find the right information. Sometimes it's not there. People are asking questions but nobody wrote it down. uh sometimes you know we are not able to actually do the needle in the haste stack you know we pick the wrong thing and so there are like lot of challenges and I think we we will be working on this problem for a long long time and I don't see us having any need by the way like you know of wanting to do something different like you know like just solving this one problem itself is a big is a big big um success so so we're going to stay focused on these two you know these two products um but then we're also like you know talk talk about a little bit about the vision for the future So I think the way we all work it's sort of well accepted that AI is going to change everything. AI is going to change how people work. AI are going to actually change how businesses actually even look and feel. You know what kind of you know workforce you have in the future. And one thing that's going to fundamentally happen is that each one of us is going to have this amazing team um of you know you can call it assistants, co-workers, coaches that are truly personal to you and you know you're always surrounded by that team and this team knows everything about you, your work life um what you need to do today and it's proactively helps you does 90% of your work for you and also like you know help you get better like you know at your at your you know like obst um be a coach Um and this and that's the world that we're going to be living in like today you know there are some people who have already who already live in that world like you know for example being a CEO you get that luxury to actually have all of that you have assistants your chief of staff you an exec team you have a coach uh but in the future that's going to be something that all of us are going to have like you know regardless of how senior we are you know you may be a new grad joining work joining the workforce that's what we are trying to actually um go and solve for we're trying to actually build that amazing personal team around every individual. Um that's going to make us all a 10xer and that's just a natural extension of like just keep evolving our green assistant product and make it better and better over time. Yeah, Arvin, thanks so much for joining us today. Yeah, that's excellent. Yeah, fun fun questions. It's always nice to see you. Yeah, likewise. Find us on Twitter at no prior pod. Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you want to see our faces. Follow the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever you listen. That way you get a new episode every week. And sign up for emails or find transcripts for every episode at no-priers.com. [Music]
