# No Priors Ep. 120 | With Google DeepMind’s Pushmeet Kohli and Matej Balog

- **Channel:** https://www.youtube.com/@NoPriorsPodcast
- **Video ID:** 2Fs6VZpsiMQ
- **Upload Date:** 20250626
- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Fs6VZpsiMQ

## Transcript

[Applause] Hi listeners and welcome back to No Priors. Today we're joined by two of the key folks behind one of the most compelling developments in AI this year, Alpha Evolve. Push Kohli and Mate Balog worked on this autonomous coding agent that uses Gemini models and evolutionary search to discover new algorithms. It marks a major leap in AI's ability to contribute to core computer science and math and perhaps sciences beyond that. It's not just a stochastic parrot or a boilerplate generator. It has shown what you might consider technical creativity in the way that move 37 did with AlphaGo, something humans hadn't done before, even in thousands of years of play. It might even be a real step on the path to self-improving AI. Push mate, thank you so much for being here. Thank you for having us. It's a pleasure. Congratulations on the success and the launch of Alpha Evolve. Can you give me a brief description of what it is broadly? Yeah. So in maybe one sentence, Alpha V is an AI coding agent that is able to discover a new algorithms that are able to make new discoveries on open scientific problems and at the same time those algorithms can be so practical that they are already deployed in key key parts of Google's own infrastructure. What is the origin story of working on this particular form of coding agent or this problem statement? So we are not new to this space of algorithm discovery. Um, as you might know, the the mission of all of DeepMind is to build AI responsibly to benefit humanity. And the way our particular team has been doing it for years now is to look for ways how AI can discover new algorithms. New algorithms are everywhere around us. So this is a very very important question and can have very high impact when we can discover algorithms that solve important computational problems with higher efficiency than what we have been able to do so far. And kind of the first breakthrough we had in this space was um in 2022 when we released a system called alpha tensor. And so that was a system that was an AI system using uh reinforcement learning that for a very specific but uh fundamental computational task. So multiplying matrices for the first time showed that AI agents can discover better algorithms that than what humans had been able to do before them. Uh so this was the the first system that gave u weight to this idea that indeed with AI we'll be able to go into this superhuman region of algorithms that we as humans have not been able to discover ourselves. How do you differentiate um alpha evolve from like alpha tensor and fun search and some other um projects in the sort of lineage of this? One way to also describe uh what we have done is if you look back at the history of uh deep mind and uh and see a number of sort of projects that have come even before uh we started working on computer science. our earlier sort of work. Uh and if you go back to uh the project on Alph Go where the Alph Go agent was able to beat the world go champion in the game of Go. And what one was the remarkable sort of uh thing uh in in that uh agent was that it was able to explore this amazingly large search space of all possible sort of go positions in in such an efficient manner that it can sort of come up with what is the optimal move at that time. Right? And that really surprised people um both uh go professionals as well as scientists. Scientists believe that that u event would come much much later because it was a very hard problem. And so um what that gave evidence for is that is the ability of these large scale uh neural networkbased systems to be able to reason and do very efficient exploration in these large search spaces and come up with amazing new insights about uh the particular domain. And in then in the game of go I mean there is this move called move 37 uh which is a very creative new move that uh the agent discovered that was not in the go literature right that uh really surprised the go professionals. So in some sense uh we asked ourselves the question that if you have an agent which can do very efficient search in the domain of go why can't you use the same kind of philosophy to search for algorithms in the space of algorithms and in fact uh that sort of was the underlying basis of the work on our our first sort of attempt at that problem which culminated in alpha tensor. So how we structured uh the algorithmic discovery uh problem is we looked at first a very important problem and uh that problem was matrix multiplication. It is a problem that is ubiquitous in computer uh science. It's one of the key fundamental operators that underlies not only computer science but also neural networks and machine learning and neur and and AI. We said can we find a way to improve matrix multiplication algorithm. So there's a history of matrix multiplication which is very interesting uh for people who might be interested in it like uh it's a even though it's such a fundamental operator um people thought that the the complexity or the time it takes to multiply two matrices is order cube. Mhm. And around 50 years back, more than 50 years back now, uh a German mathematician Strassen came up with this very counterintuitive construction which showed that in fact the complexity was not uh n to the power three or what's not cubic where n is the sort of dimensionality of the matrix. bit lower and so and that was a very counterintuitive sort of result and um and but it stayed for more than 50 years and until sort of alpha tensor came up and we said well can we actually improve this result and uh remarkably we were able to show that that alpha tensor while uh by having this amazing ability to do search in this very large space even much larger uh than the space of possible go moves was able to come up with this amazingly new algorithm which which improved things. But then the question was well we now have proved the thesis that you have these uh super intelligent agents which can go beyond what uh human computer scientists uh have been able to do. But can we generalize them? This is sort of alpha tensor was very smart but uh was only sort of purposefully constructed for the matrix multiplication problem. Can we have build a agent that is more general? Both more general in the sense of it can handle more more general problems but can also uh search in the space more naturally in the space of programs rather than in the space of uh very specific uh sort of operations that were required for matrix multiplication. And that was the origin of uh sort of the first uh attempt uh of of us uh with fund search which was an LLM based agent which for the first time by searching in the space of programs showed that you can come up with completely new solutions like and this and made the first scientific discovery from NL NLM and Alpha Evolve is basically an extension of of that I'm very inspired by um the idea I think as many people are that uh AI will actually have creativity does actually have like technical creativity as you are describing as one way to conceptualize this where you're you know outside of the patterns that we already know as engineers I want to go back to some of the mechanics here um and the limits to generalization and how to think about automated evaluators and and a lot of different topics but you know when you think about these problems s that are clearly like economically valuable and interesting like matrix multiplication the potential efficiency of it. What is your intuition for uh why you know those those solutions have not been found before? Is it simply like the search space is too large or people in this field were complacent in that um they believed a certain solution was like the maximum efficiency or because uh clearly there's there's value to be had here. My sort of opinion on this is basically that if you look at the structure of the of the algorithm what Straen produced was quite sort of uh ingenious. It was not a natural thing that you would sort of think of and that is uh that was for only 2x2 matrices. As you sort of go to larger sizes the space is so huge. The constructions are not sort of something which is very natural. These are very involved and integrate in integrate intricate sort of constructions that uh would be very hard to discover by chance. So it's quite interesting that it is it has this very special struct uh structure but it's not something that is that comes naturally or or uh to to a human computer scientist. Just to add to that so I definitely agree the the search space is just uh unbelievably vast. the solutions are maybe non-intuitive and the third thing I want to emphasize is that I really believe the people who worked on this in the past were definitely not complacent and in fact the the problems we chose to apply alpha evolve to in the first instance uh both on the scientific side and the practical side we we deliberately chose problems which have been worked on for a very long time by the very best people so on the on the scientific side since we're talking about matrix multiplication this has been a known open problem for decades and and many people have been have been working on it and similarly for the the the practical applications that that we that we mentioned in our alpha evolve release in key parts of Google's infrastructure again like these are things that have been heavily optimized inside Google because they are so important and so by having a system like Alpha Evolve or any other um uh discover something new on these problems I think that's as strong a demonstration as I can imagine um of the fact that this is indeed something that is new because no one found it before and also it is something that was not easy to discover because those results stood for such a long time and have been worked on by yeah such uh such strong people. I noted that this is not a comment on the you know broad efforts of the computer science industry to date on matrix multiplication or data center optimization. I I think this is a good moment to try to demystify what's happening under the hood for a broader set of people. Um can you can you walk us through a concrete example of how alpha evolve actually evolves code and say let's take the example of trying to optimize um data center scheduling right what does the step-by-step process look like from initial random code to final solution that saves millions of dollars of of power I can walk you through that uh so the user of a system like alpha evolve they basically specify what is the problem that they are trying to solve so that's the most important thing and you specify by providing what is called an evaluation function. What this function does is um whenever there is a proposed solution for solving the problem, you're able to tell how good this solution is. So you basically define what makes a good solution for discovering an algorithm for scheduling jobs on a data center. This evaluation function could be something like a simulator of jobs in a in a data center that given an algorithm for doing the scheduling, it simulates how good this algorithm is. So that's what the user provides and this is a simulator you already had. Yes. So that's a simulator that we already had. Um and I would say it's something that is quite natural to have in in many in many domains because you know whenever you want to innovate on something you need to have a way of telling okay is the innovation actually good or not. So so it's a very natural object to to have at least um in principle. So you define the what by providing the evaluation function and then alpha evolve fills in the how. So that that that's the job of uh of our system and you can do it in two fairly different ways. One is you tell alpha evolve I have no idea how to solve this problem. Let's start completely from scratch and let's try to be creative and come up with something completely new. So that's one option you can take. Another option you can take is um actually we have already worked on this problem for a really long time. here is a very strong initial solution that we can provide to the system and you can start from here and that's what we did uh for the application to discovering new algorithms for uh for scheduling jobs in a data center. So alpha evolve takes this initial solution and then it on a high level it combines the creative power of large language models to propose like creative new ways how to improve that solution. the strictness of the evaluation function provided by the user that is able to actually filter out the things that uh that work from the ones that don't. And then this is wrapped inside an evolutionary algorithm that makes sure that we kind of discover the whole space of um of algorithms in that region so that we don't commit to a very specific type of solution early on, but instead we maintain a diverse pool of potential solutions over time. Maybe we combine ideas from different uh different solutions that are already strong until we actually have an algorithm that's so strong that we are happy to happy to deploy to a critical part of Google's infrastructure. Let's say and intuitively um not in the machine learning sense but in the evolution sense you have different generations where you're getting closer to an optimal solution. Yeah, that's right. Like you would expect that in each iteration of evolution, what you're doing is you're looking at the previous iteration, looking at the maybe the strongest solutions you have and then trying to be creative about how can I combine ideas from those solutions or maybe bring in completely new ideas to to come up with something even better and so yes, each generation gets stronger and stronger. How much scaling are we talking about? like is there um a way to predict how many generations it take or how do you you know constrain the the number of iterations that um the model can use. So there are two parts to your question. Uh one is about okay how does scaling work and then how can you predict it. So for the first part this is actually a really nice feature of alpha evolve that it can adapt to the difficulty of the problem. If you ask alpha evolve to find a solution to a problem that's actually unexpectedly easy then it will just do it very very quickly like almost immediately you will have the solution but if you ask it a problem that's really really difficult and by really really difficult I I mean like really difficult maybe an open question that has stood for decades in the sciences or like you want a practical algorithm for really high value application in Google then you you you would of course expect this is not an easy problem, you might need to spend um longer time considering different solutions, exploring the space, combining ideas. But what's really nice about Alpha Evolve is that it is able to sustain this scaling in a way that it keeps improving over time and it keeps improving for so long that you can make discoveries on this level of difficulty like know breaking decades old scientific challenges or discovering high value algorithms. Now I I I know it maybe sounds sounds trivial that if you you know wait longer you get better results but in practice that's actually um like a really difficult thing to build automated agents that are able to sustain this this continual improvement without plateauing quite quite early. This is I think a nice feature. There was a second part to the question about predicting how many iterations you will need. Um so that is something that that is actually not so easy because it's like asking a priority. Do you know how difficult this question is going to be? And especially in the sciences, that's something that often has a very surprising answer like very trivial questions can turn out to be extremely extremely difficult and vice versa. But the nice thing is that you have continual improvement if you run this system. And um as long as you can can run it, you can expect to get better and better results and you you just have to see where where this where this gets you. If you think about the coding agents that general developers have access to and are increasingly using today, one frustration with them is on relatively trivial problems um it is set out to do autonomously. It will get lost in and blow itself up or plateau as you said um uh in frustrating ways like can you talk about if you think there are implications from alpha evolve to to these other general coding agents? While large jungle models and coding agents are uh getting much better in their understanding of code, uh they're not perfect, right? So they do make mistakes. The other sort of element is to think about what is the task that these agents have been assigned. Um mostly if you are asking an agent to solve a particular task or write a particular program, you are providing a specification. you are specifying the task either in natural language or you're saying well I'm trying to do something completed right so it's not a complete characterization of what you want it's a a partial specification of what you want and the agents then try to solve the problem and might get lucky and or might and might get the right result or they might hallucinate and get the wrong result and the issue is how do you know what so whether the result is right or wrong and that depends on having a good evaluator that's how alpha evolve solves the problem so in some sense we are able to leverage the hallucinations for a beneficial purpose right so the creativity and the wrong answers that alpha evolve can somehow come up with how do we know that they're wrong they might be very good we we just don't see them in that way and which is why the the the role of the evaluator is really important and how do we even do the evaluation is very important because when you come up with a new idea um should you try to explore that idea much further right or how deep should you go into stress testing that idea should you try that idea out on a few different instance in instances or sort of a thousand different instances or really stress test that that the idea actually works for the whole uh thing. This is one of the interesting parts of uh Alpha Evolve. Getting that balance right is really important so that you can look at where are the creative solutions, how can you sort of filter out the ones that are promising and then use them later to refine the search process to get the final solution. If evaluation functions, automated evaluators are um really like such a limiting constraint here in terms of what we can get um agents to do. Any intuition from this project or others on how to overcome that? Like can models get good at helping us create automated evaluators? Should we imagine simulators that are better for lots of different domains? If I you know lame product manager putting in incomplete natural language spec to coding agent uh should I work with an assistant to like complete that spec do I use traces how do you how do you think that gets solved that's a really really great question and I think uh you can view it from two perspectives that I I think will happen at the same time so one is that yes currently the the strict evaluation function plays a key role in alpha evolve and one takeaway you can take from this I thinking about the future is that it it shows the the really high value of having these evaluators available because in many cases it might be that you have a really important problem but you don't actually have a very precise definition of what makes for a good solution. And one takeaway you can have from a system like this is that if you actually do build a very precise evaluation function, then this unlocks the possibility of having an agent like Alpha Evolve discover something that's way beyond what what let's say humans have been able to discover or your your best developers have been able to discover. So that that's one takeaway. But the other takeaway that I'm maybe even more excited about from the research perspective is that we don't actually think this is a conceptual limitation. Okay, so today we have this was maybe the the easiest way to get into this game of discovering new things by looking at problems that already come with these ve very precise evaluation functions. So that's just a natural first step to take. But I do believe that this assumption can be relaxed in very significant ways. And in particular, you already mentioned one example where maybe language models themselves will be able to evaluate whether proposed solutions look promising or not or whether they fail in in some particular ways. And indeed there is um parallel work from Fleet Maidwell called AI coscientist which demonstrates this very clearly that uh if you if you propose ideas in in natural language then you can get language models to provide meaningful critiques and identify the ones that work from the ones that that don't. So I really do see a lot of hope on relaxing this assumption. And then even in between these two extremes of um you know strict evaluation that exactly tells you how good a solution is on one end and then uh natural language evaluation by a language model on the other end. There's a continual spectrum of um simulators and um auxiliary evaluation functions which are maybe not perfect but as long as they are correlated with the with the true signal then we can build the algorithmic scaffolding of the evolutionary algorithm around this in such a way that we still make meaningful progress and maybe it will take a few more iterations but we can still still go really really far. So just to add what mate sort of mentioned I think uh the one of the takeaways is basically that uh LLM based agents like alpha ball especially when we structure them in this way with population based uh sort of uh search right with the evolutionary approaches they are extremely effective in searching they can search very convincingly and very effectively in very large spaces. is and come up with uh very counterintuitive uh new solutions for important problems problems that uh we have studied for many many years and sometimes in in in some cases decades. Uh so that's one. The other sort of element of uh the evaluator like as matey mentioned there is work on using other sources of for evaluation. So you don't have the perfect evaluator even for alpha evolve uh even if you have a simulator that's not a perfect evaluator right because you are sort of going to evaluate things on uh a specific distribution of problem instances. you might want to sort of uh prove certain properties of the solution, right? You might want to say that the solution always uh has certain performance. So if you want to prove certain properties of of the solution, that will that might require sort of other work, right? You might have to have a proof agent which sort of tries to approve uh certain properties of of the solution. While on the other hand you have these LLM based evaluators which uh can look at the solution and you don't have uh nobody has built a simulator but they can just have a guess on how good that solution is and in fact that approach also works very well and we have shown that uh uh this AI coscientist uh which we have used for hypothesis generation it basically uses a multi- aent sort of setup and where LLMs themselves are able to sort of figure out that uh uh certain hypothesis are better in terms of novelty and significance and impact and should be propagated, right? And that whole process uh ends up and this might be surprising and counterintuitive to some of producing much much much better results than the base large language model. Right? So you are really able to discover new information beyond what the large language model itself alone was able to produce. That begs a question which I think is like one of the biggest meta questions proposed by this sort of work which is like do we get self-improving AI right? Um, one of the things you demonstrated with alpha evolve is you can optimize the systems used to train alpha evolve, right? So you have this, you know, 23% speed up in part of the training infrastructure. Um, if I recall correctly, are are we now witnessing the early stages of recursive self-improvement in AI and you know what do you think the implications are if that's true? uh I think in some senses uh sort of yes but at the moment what we have seen is basically improvements in computation time. So uh what alpha evolve has been able to do is basically make training more efficient. But you can ask the question can you make the training uh you can can you improve the training process such that the underlying model is not only uh sort of uh uh trained faster but is actually fundamentally better in certain cognitive tasks and that is something that has to be validated still right but uh it is a direction that is definitely very appealing and and something that is being sort of actively sort of looked by many people. Do you have a reason to believe it won't work? No, it it should work. But as as we sort of mentioned that having good evaluators is an important element, right? And so having a sort of evaluator which can say this proposal that you have just suggested for me to improve the training process will yield a good result. So if you have that kind of evaluator uh then it will work. that there is no reason why such an evaluator does not exist but uh we need to sort of work on building such evaluation functions. Maybe just one one thing to add to it is that uh like I would also agree that we are maybe seeing the first sign of self-improvement but one also needs to be very specific about what we have shown so far like as pushmitt mentioned it's the speeding up the training of the next generation of the Gemini model so the feedback loop is is fairly long at least currently maybe on the order of months but there is you can call it self-improvement for sure maybe the the big question that many people are curious about is how does this extrapolate into the future And you can have different types of self-improvement. One is where you get maybe just a one-off benefit like the model improves itself once and that's it. Another one is okay the model keeps improving itself continuously but maybe the improvements get uh marginally smaller and smaller and smaller and you converge to some limit or maybe the the improvements will will keep accumulating uh up and up and up and that's a big open question that u yeah we don't have an answer to today. Let's take that projection to other fields and obviously these are all interrelated but um one of the things me mate you're really excited about is just how uh AI applies to these sciences um when you think about new mathematical constructions improved solutions to you know open problems or problems that looked solved you know to humanity 50 years ago. um what do you what do you think the implication is in in different fields like is it a fundamental shift in how scientific discovery or mathematics gets done? First of all, yes, I I'm super excited working in this area of using AI to accelerate the sciences because in a way it's the most exciting application of AI that I can imagine like like what what could be more valuable or exciting to to advancing the frontiers of of human knowledge. So, so yes that that is definitely there and then of course in different um fields of science the speed of progress or the advance you get from AI uh might be slightly different. So in Alpha Evolve we've primarily focused on mathematics and computer science because these are the the domains where it's the easiest to get these um automated evaluation functions like you often get them basically for free. That's not to say that you cannot get them in in other branches of science. But in math and computer science, it's just it's just um they're just most common. If you think about biology or chemistry, you want to design a molecule, then um you can have an evaluation function again in the form of a simulator or a predictive model that given a candidate molecule, we'll make a meaningful prediction about okay, is this actually work going to work in practice? And then if you are in this regime then again um alpha evolve would be applicable and and we are only talking about the version of alpha evolve that we have built today and these are problems that we can uh address today. Um but we don't think that u the journey of alpha evolve finishes here. we have uh many ideas about how to make this system uh more powerful and more broadly applicable and I'm I'm fairly confident that we will see many applications across many branches of science and then this is only talking about alpha evolve there are many other agents Bushmid mentioned AI co-scientist and and many others that um I'm sure will keep transforming how science is being done across the whole spectrum. Yeah. So I think broadly if you look at it right science is uh a lot of science involves searching right searching for the right idea searching for the right construction searching for the right uh sort of solution the right drug candidate and so on and in some sense like what uh scientists have been trying to do is sort of somehow make that uh process repeatable right there at the moment there is still sort of an element of uh uh certendipity to some of the discoveries. But we are as we move towards uh sort of rational material discovery or rational drug discovery. Uh you are sort of seeing uh computational approaches and very systematic evaluations playing a much more important role in many areas of science. uh and I think as uh that work propagates you will have systems like alpha evolve which will be able to search in those spaces and use these evaluations much more effectively. So it's it's like you can sort of see this as a tool that will give scientists a superpower in their ability to search over very complex and sometimes uh counterintuitive uh sort of solution spaces. When I think about one logical um extension to this approach, it is um let's say evaluate like automated evaluation in the real world, right? So lab aay, you know, a bunch of robotic arms doing experimentation if you're um screening molecules for something. What do you think the role let's just say like very near-term um if that vision is true um of the human scientist or engineer is? Is it the problem framing like determining the evaluation? Is it constraining the like giving some intuition for like a starting point or a search space? Like what what should the human scientist be good at from here? There are many sort of elements, right? First of all, as we were as we have been talking about a lot the role of the evaluation function, right? So that needs to be defined like what do we really how do we want to assess these solutions? But then there are many other sort of elements as well. Right? When we are uh trying to find a solution, it has to have certain properties. What are those properties? Right? Giving hints uh giving sort of uh for example, if you're trying to discover uh a new drug, you want to make sure that that drug sort of treats the disease but does not kill the patient, right? It has sort of uh uh its side effects are low, right? or it can be what is what is the delivery mechanism for it. So there are so many different u requirements that uh a solution might want that might need to satisfy and some of them are encoded in the evaluator in function evaluator and some of them you might want to hard constrain the them in the solution right and so can you specify those so that uh an agent like alpha evolve can take that into account while it is uh thinking about how it exposes the search space or how it constructs uh the solutions that it it will sort of generate. These are all sort of very interesting places where human input might be required but especially as we look at many different types of domains. So yeah, I I think we should definitely see this as an amazing tool for scientists, for computer scientists, mathematicians and and this is in fact this has been sort of our experience as well that in the right hands it is a very powerful tool, right? So like mathematicians who have tried to explore it and uh and they they have been able to specify what are the solutions that what are the types of solutions that they're looking for. they can be much more uh uh productive and much more sort of effective in finding uh the solutions. I just wanted to highlight that uh even though we have uh been describing alpha bulb as this kind of autonomous agent that does things on its own actually in practice using this agent often turns out to be surprisingly collaborative and we have seen this in particular uh with mathematicians that we have collaborated with um and there are a few reasons for this uh but one is that um alpha evolve is an agent that doesn't just give you the solution it searches for for an algorithm that constructs that solution. And so depending on how you how you set up your problem definition, often it's actually the algorithm that's even more valuable than the solution itself because the algorithm it tells you how to construct the solution. So that means you understand what are the what are the ideas that go into building that solution and maybe especially or definitely it's true in mathematics that's what um that's what people really care about to understand the nature of our our universe and uh know build up the understanding of fundamental ideas and so it's actually often not interesting almost at all what the solution is but what you care about is how you how you build it and so we had a firsthand experience collaborating with multiple mathematicians and it's been really fascinating to see where we would would share with them the the output from alpha evolve and um they they would be like really fascinated looking at the code that that it found and trying to understand okay what is it actually doing and then understanding oh okay this this is doing this this is doing that and now I can see why why if you put it together then it leads to a really good solution. Yeah, like I can also confirm from my own personal experience that looking at the at the code or the algorithms that the system finds, it's it's often a really interesting experience because it's it's code that kind of like looks uh humanlike like it's something that you could have written but would you have thought of writing it in exactly this way and then trying to understand of okay what exactly is it doing? um that that's a really interesting experience but at the same time it's one of the key strengths of of the system not only for scientific applications where you can look at the code and get some understanding out of it but also for many of the practical applications. It's it's hugely valuable that the the artifact you get out of alpha evolve is a is a piece of code and then you deploy that piece of code. And so before you do that um experts, engineers who have worked on that system can visually inspect that piece of code, understand it and make the final decision of whether it's going to be deployed. So it's in a completely different league from let's say considering um using a neural network to make decisions in some production system where you kind of need to trust that the neural network is going to always behave in the way that you hope it will. With the code you can look at it, understand it and make the decision yourself. I might add that basically uh not all code is interpretable by by humans, right? the solutions and the programs that Alpha finds are sort of interpretable by uh human uh programmers. So uh so this is going to be a very interesting area of work in the future as to when you find these solutions what can we learn from them. This was very interesting like as mate was sort of mentioning this was a very interesting experience that we had working with Jordan Ellenburgg in the first in the earlier version of alpha bulb when we were working on the capset problem. the programs that it discovered had this very interesting symmetries that um that mathematicians did not know about. And so so not only the solution was uh mathematically interesting but like the actual sort of con construction but the algorithm for for producing that construction had uh the structure of it was interesting in itself. for listeners who are thinking about um accessibility or implications for themselves where they're not professional mathematicians in collaboration with Alpha Evolve, what are the considerations in making some of these capabilities more broadly available? We want to make uh these capabilities accessible to um as many people as we can uh to the wider community. Uh now we we have started a trusted tester program where we have asked uh people to submit proposals and what we intend to do with uh that program is to figure out what are the right ways in which people can really leverage uh alpha. So we have internally used it across Google but as you know it requires certain things sort of the need for a function evaluator. As part of the trusted testers program we are going to be evaluating alpha evolve on a bunch of different uh types of uh applications and that will inform our future uh release strategy as to how do we make it more broadly applicable. The second sort of element is that not only you need the function the the evaluator but you also need a significant amount of uh computational resources right because it's not just one single LLM call it's it requires a significant amount of uh uh function evaluations depending on the difficulty of the problem right if it's a easy problem then you can do it very quickly but if you really are going for some very hard problems with a very large extended search space and you want to spend a significant amount of time searching over it. Then how do you build the overall system that can that people can sort of uh uh can use effectively and efficiently? That's the other sort of thing that we'll be thinking about. Last question for you both. Is there um sort of practical application within Google that you think will be interesting that you haven't tried alpha evolve on yet? In this uh white paper, we try to think about holistically when we look at the computational infrastructure of Google, what are the the key parts in this infrastructure to demonstrate that Alpha Evolve can make discoveries across the stack, not only in one part of it, and that it can make discoveries that are highly valuable. And so we try to cover the entire spectrum. So, so we show that Alpha Evolve can improve the efficiency of the data center. It can contribute to hardware design and it can contribute to improving the efficiency of most important pieces of software that uh that are being run inside Google. And like one intention here was to demonstrate that this is a really versatile tool that you can apply across the spectrum. And as pushmitt was saying this is a tool that is already available inside Google and it is being being used for for many many problems. Uh there are quite a few exciting ones. I I'm not ready to share about the particulars. uh yet but uh as you can imagine there is so many exciting computational problems in a in a in a place like Google uh within AI and also outside uh that yeah I'm I'm sure there will be many many really cool results um coming in the future I think that's a great note to end on um Push Mate anything we didn't cover no I think that will great thank you guys so much for being here congrats okay great thank you very much find us on Twitter at no prior pod Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you want to see our faces. Follow the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever you listen. That way, you get a new episode every week. And sign up for emails or find transcripts for every episode at no-priers.com. [Music]
