# 🔮 The Sunday edition #505: Mirroring life; robot training; murder by streetview; 3D plane, influencer MPs & bunke…

**From:** "Azeem Azhar, Exponential View" <exponentialview@substack.com>
**Date:** 2024-12-21T23:41:38.000Z
**Folder:** exponential

---

View this post on the web at https://www.exponentialview.co/p/ev-505

👋🏼 Hi, it’s Azeem. Each week I share my view on the evolving world of AI and exponential technologies to help you understand what is going on and what to pay attention to – this is the last Sunday edition of 2024!
Two remarkable developments drew my attention this week. First, a new Stanford report delivers a warning that we may be nearing the creation of “mirror life” – organisms built from reversed molecules that could potentially outcompete natural biology. Meanwhile, fresh research questions the idea that artificial intelligence evens the playing field. Let’s get into it!
2025 Horizon Scan – Live community briefing
I’m hosting two sessions in January with members of Exponential View. I’ll present my 2025 forecast and open the space to discuss major opportunities and risks ahead. Join me on one of these days:
8 January, 4pm UK / 11am ET REGISTER HERE [ https://substack.com/redirect/d4be8edf-e5bf-441a-bf3b-e553fe91bd64?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]
9 January, 11am UK / 3pm Dubai time REGISTER HERE [ https://substack.com/redirect/fe047ad0-4d6b-4836-94d0-3dcded64c6d0?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]
Our live sessions are open only to paying members of Exponential View. If you’re not a member but want to join, upgrade your membership:
Ideas of the week
Beyond human – o3’s arrival
OpenAI previewed a new reasoning model, o3. The new model is good at reasoning in mathematical and programming domains. It scores really well on a particular benchmark called ARC-AGI, which is above the average human. Spend more money on it, up to $3,500 per task, and it approaches the performance of a STEM graduate and it’s better than virtually every human coder. We’re witnessing a shift in how quickly AI capabilities advance and how they may reshape our understanding of complex domains. My full commentary on what o3’s arrival means is here [ https://substack.com/redirect/7d88f39d-5c2e-4bda-a3f3-6254ac997819?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ].
Reflected Eden
A new 300-page Stanford report [ https://substack.com/redirect/67ab5ccc-d5b6-4370-b365-b94eb9de9377?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] warns that advances in synthetic biology and chemistry are eroding the barriers that previously made ‘mirror bacteria’ impossible. ‘Mirror life’, also known as ‘mirror cells’ or ‘chiral life’, refers to the hypothetical organisms created in a lab that have mirror image molecular structures of various natural organisms. Life on Earth uses mostly “left-handed” amino acids and “right-handed” sugars. In contrast, a “mirror cell” would be built from molecular components with the opposite orientation, creating a lifeform that is chemically a perfect mirror image of conventional life. Human bodies, and other natural organisms, may not be able to detect, digest, infect or effectively interact with this new form of life. However, there are many cases in which mirror life could be useful. Mirror cells could be used to produce drugs in contamination-free environments, for instance. They could also improve chemical synthesis, creating specialty compounds with greater precision and fewer unwanted byproducts. But, the risks are significant. Economist AT Robin Hanson warned in 2010 [ https://substack.com/redirect/a4739bb3-3cb0-423a-9c3e-f788d2fd885e?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]: “If it gained energy via photosynthesis, or via special adaptations that enable it to eat ordinary life […] it could take over much of the biosphere.”
Do the robot – millions of times over
I warmed up a bit to the progress in robotics this year. Many challenges in real-world navigation are being helped by the genAI boom. A new generative physics engine released this week, Genesis [ https://substack.com/redirect/41824a3e-3f4a-4d01-b095-9fdc0b014fe0?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], can produce 4D dynamical worlds for general-purpose robotics and physical AI training. It’s not the first one, but it’s currently the fastest engine for robot learning. Its simulation speed is ~430,000 faster than in real-time. It takes only 26 seconds to train a set of controls for the real world on a single GPU.
Who really gains from AI?
Earlier studies found co-pilot [ https://substack.com/redirect/9d77a892-b3be-4a55-9928-3498353a6b9c?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] AI to narrow the skills gap. However, new research by Enrique Ide and Eduard Talamàs [ https://substack.com/redirect/8c9344a4-5929-4165-90e0-19bee222fb3d?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] finds that when AI acts on its own, the best players offload their busywork and climb even higher. We’ll learn much about who gains and who loses as the use is scaled across companies. To increase your understanding of a world filled with agents, see our research on how we go from co-pilots to a billion+ agent future [ https://substack.com/redirect/1cb4eabb-1925-4493-a7da-7b74a8ff628e?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ].
See also:
o1-preview outperformed doctors in diagnosing complex medical cases, achieving a score of 97.5% on clinical reasoning assessments [ https://substack.com/redirect/b6ea29e4-2eb2-4992-bf11-5b3ea7f357b8?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] compared to just 35% for attending physicians.
A new Anthropic study shows that AI models can fake alignment [ https://substack.com/redirect/bd7414de-3b2e-414f-a8bd-7881ec328d35?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]: they pretend to accept harmful directives, while secretly clinging to their original, well-intentioned values. Under surveillance, they serve up unsettling content to avoid retraining that might corrupt their helpful core. Unwatched, the models revert to refusing these demands, proving they never truly embraced the new rules. It’s not malicious – just self-preservation of their benign principles.
Locking down the commons
The UK government is proposing a new blueprint for how AI and copyright should interact [ https://substack.com/redirect/717e497b-ef61-49a9-b77c-ab3af8c2265c?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. At first glance it seems progressive, with mechanisms like “rights reservation” for rightsholders to demand payment, a data-mining exception when no rights are reserved and rules that require transparency about training sources. However, these measures are built on a framework that still heavily favours established industry giants. Independent creators, remixers and online communities depend on a freely flowing cultural commons, yet this new plan would ensure that major players continue to reap the lion’s share of AI-driven profits. The government’s document is currently open [ https://substack.com/redirect/717e497b-ef61-49a9-b77c-ab3af8c2265c?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] for public comment.
Abracadabra, there will be demand
China’s capacity-first approach – where factories rise long before a single purchase order – has caught the West off-guard. While Western firms wait for clear consumer demand signals before committing capital, Beijing dives headlong into production lines and gigafactories, guided by policy nudges and state financing, effectively willing demand to appear. This strategy has accelerated China’s rise in critical sectors – from EVs and batteries to solar panels – compressing the scale-up period for climate technologies. Yet, this model gambles on the future; if global conditions shift, China’s top-down planners could be left with empty plants, sunk capital and mounting debt. For longer reads on this see The Economist [ https://substack.com/redirect/0a875563-6e26-4c9e-86e2-9710ff538261?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] and this analysis by  [ https://substack.com/redirect/5bad02de-4dfd-49c6-b99d-8f41eb3569fd?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]Michael Dunne . I still trust that the West’s more decentralised, market-led model may look sluggish early on but will prove more durable in the face of economic shocks.
Short morsels to appear smart at dinner parties
👏🏼 EV member Dan Brunner’s Commonwealth Fusion Systems plans first fusion power plant in Virginia by 2030s [ https://substack.com/redirect/4c80e72e-c0da-4106-8f1e-b1d47224edd8?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. Let’s go!
🚢 The Suez Canal’s opening in 1869 boosted trade between connected countries by 72% [ https://substack.com/redirect/9defd5b4-d1dc-4ab2-8f7f-a1c386b194a4?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ].
📞 OpenAI now lets US users chat with ChatGPT through a 1-800 number [ https://substack.com/redirect/4c38fa0f-434c-48fb-9fee-8fae455cc4c0?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ].
🎭 More than 20 social media influencers [ https://substack.com/redirect/9c9462e7-3eb1-4cb9-9d91-7288f54a438f?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] were elected to Indonesia’s parliament this year.
🚪 US bunker sales surge to $175 million [ https://substack.com/redirect/5a47c999-98ef-41dc-a373-d97e16dc0f78?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] despite experts warning nuclear war isn’t survivable.
🛩️ For just $80 in plastic, you can 3D print a 7ft plane that flies 240 miles [ https://substack.com/@tsungxu/note/c-80220401?utm_source=notes-share-action&r=f84r ] – all on a $300 printer. h/t Tsung Xu
📸 Whodunnit: Google Street View helped solve [ https://substack.com/redirect/a68582d1-bfc7-4954-b7b4-1b76365d40bf?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] a Spanish murder case.
This is the final edition of the Sunday newsletter for this year. We will keep a lighter publishing schedule over the next two weeks – and the next Sunday edition will be in your inbox on 12 January. Thank you for reading, listening and liking what we do – happy holidays! 🎈
