# 🔮 Exponential View #519: Google’s silicon curtain; people’s prompt; good crisis; AI tag team; Waymo in Japan, uns…

**From:** "Azeem Azhar, Exponential View" <exponentialview@substack.com>
**Date:** 2025-04-13T00:44:43.000Z
**Folder:** exponential

---

View this post on the web at https://www.exponentialview.co/p/ev-519

Hi, it’s Azeem with our weekend email which will give you the much-needed distance from the headlines. Google is going from strength to strength, releasing its new Ironwood TPU, while a looming economic squeeze might accelerate AI adoption in ways we’ve seen before with past technologies. And all the while, individuals seem to be racing ahead in using AI tools day-to-day, even as big organizations struggle to keep up. Let’s dive in.
Google caught the wave
Two years ago, I warned that Google could be facing a tidal wave [ https://substack.com/redirect/f0b5383d-b006-4a7d-881a-a222802a1da4?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] like never before. I wrote:
It can be hard for successful firms like Google to address threats like [OpenAI]. The firm has some of the best research, development and engineering in this field. So too did many firms facing competitive pressure before it. Digital Equipment led in minicomputers as IBM launched the PC. Microsoft had tons of online and Internet know-how. Nokia knew more about smartphone operating systems than either Apple or Android. [...] If the start page of the Internet is shifting further from the browser and Google.com (or its preferential position on iPhones), that is more of a challenge. [...] Microsoft, under Bill Gates, survived the Internet tidal wave. Google, too, could prosper during the GPT tidal wave. But there is a lot to play for.
This week, Google has shown us that it’s clearly pulling ahead in terms of model performance. The chart below shows the Pareto frontier of LLM models – that is, for every combination of price vs performance, which model performs the best. Google’s family of Gemini models trounce everyone else… for now.  Undoubtedly, there is some good research driving these gains, but is Google’s secret weapon its decade-long investment in custom hardware?
Undoubtedly, there is some good research driving these gains, but is Google’s secret weapon its decade-long investment in custom hardware?
Google’s latest chip, the “Ironwood” TPU (v7p), announced this week, roughly matches Nvidia’s newest GB200 [ https://substack.com/redirect/91760199-b4fd-4d81-8b0e-47845a33a59e?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. But it’s not really Nvidia who is under direct threat from these TPUs – it’s Google’s AI model provider competitors. Google’s direct hardware control clearly translates into lower operational costs. Google doesn’t pay Nvidia’s profit margin, letting it serve high-performance AI models at significantly lower prices.
This hardware-driven cost advantage poses real challenges for OpenAI. Why would you use a model that is over 25 times more expensive? My colleague Nathan Warren can’t even remember the last time he made an API call to an OpenAI model. Data from Open Router [ https://substack.com/redirect/90ed3ff9-8a21-43bd-9df0-74e129008443?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], a platform popular among developers, shows that OpenAI models account for less than 10% of tokens in the last month.
Yet, OpenAI retains a strong edge among consumers – last month, traffic to the ChatGPT web app was over 10x that of Gemini. And it seems like ChatGPT may have passed one billion weekly users. [ https://substack.com/redirect/bfcd5769-19ad-459e-aa5c-3706e34f1cdc?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]
And they are still the leaders in releasing new product innovations. Just this week, OpenAI released an upgraded memory feature for ChatGPT [ https://substack.com/redirect/b49d064d-5688-4eb5-bdb2-488603c40f84?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], which can now reference all your past conversations. For most consumers, if ChatGPT isn’t broke, why bother to change? But if AI is going to be more than just a chatbot and be the general purpose technology we think it is – it will demand backends built on performative – and cheap – APIs. Google’s advantage is that they can provide this without a middle-man (Nvidia) taking a cut. OpenAI has no such luxury and that might mean it’s at the limit of its game.
See also, from Google’s week of AI releases & news:
Making agents collaborate: Google’s Agent2Agent (A2A) protocol [ https://substack.com/redirect/3941bd8b-c78e-423e-b987-2e339f152ea0?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] proposes an open standard to help AI agents from different vendors communicate securely and coordinate tasks.
Talent lock-in? Google DeepMind is reportedly paying some departing UK staff year-long non-competes [ https://substack.com/redirect/b0846d4a-0181-41cc-b239-15469b440f83?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] to keep them from joining rivals.
Llama 4’s messy release [ https://substack.com/redirect/0222ce53-daa7-4b39-8b30-037fbfccab5e?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] (uneven mixture-of-experts model, licensing confusion) leaves Meta’s open-source strategy in question.
Anthropic introduced pricey $100–$200/month “Max” tiers [ https://substack.com/redirect/57a14d0f-0db9-49de-b69f-e3fd2fc5806f?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] for Claude power users. It’s unclear how valuable this will be, as neither my team nor I have reached usage limits in recent months (and we use Claude every day).
The people’s prompt
Generative AI didn’t follow the usual top-down path of tech adoption. It skipped the boardrooms and landed straight in people’s pockets. As Andrej Karpathy put it, “Power to the people [ https://substack.com/redirect/76856de5-f62e-4750-9d54-ed166ebb17d0?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]”. ChatGPT hit 400 million weekly users not because of enterprise rollouts, but because it was free, fast and useful.
LLMs are digital Swiss Army knives—broad, flexible, and good enough for everything from writing wedding speeches to sorting personal finances. Their power isn’t precision, but generality. As Flo Crivello of Lindy told me [ https://substack.com/redirect/351109fc-bf9c-48b8-8ce1-5d65679a5c54?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]:
Just like AI agents, the internet was an extremely powerful democratizing force in media. If you consider YouTubers like MrBeast. A random 17-year-old in his bedroom, with no connections, no professional equipment, no capital. YouTube-native content like his, it is much weirder because it is the brainchild of just one person allowed to express themselves without going through all the filters.
Meanwhile, companies are struggling to replicate this success. Despite 78% of firms using AI, McKinsey finds [ https://substack.com/redirect/e0023502-df0e-4c0b-a4e6-a5610cdfeebf?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] most still see little bottom-line impact. Top-down deployments get bogged down in governance, integration and inertia.
But some leaders are doing it the right way. Shopify’s CEO Tobi Lütke told teams [ https://substack.com/redirect/14338002-cabc-46c4-b426-c3e43d90d594?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] in his internal memo:
Before asking for more headcount and resources, teams must demonstrate why they cannot accomplish their goals using AI, explicitly showing what their area would look like if autonomous AI agents were integrated as part of the team.
I echo Tobi’s approach – I shared with members of EV this week [ https://substack.com/redirect/a1941fd4-e405-4fab-99e0-91617cb38a4a?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] a letter I wrote to my portfolio companies urging them to scale through synthetic capacity.
So bad it’s good for you
Could Trump’s tariffs inadvertently accelerate AI adoption? Economic history suggests recessions don’t merely nudge companies toward automation—they force it [ https://substack.com/redirect/23d8c2d4-f3a3-4f40-85c3-28172fed5eb0?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. From factory automation after the Great Depression to computer-driven productivity spikes in the recessions of the 1980s, ‘90s and early 2000s, economic downturns consistently trigger automation surges. The 2008 crisis further accelerated demand for digital skills and COVID-19 made digital adoption mandatory overnight. Cost pressures could transform automation from strategy into necessity.
LLMs are inherently complex, contributing to slower corporate adoption. Yet, in a recession, survival becomes paramount, and some companies have already reported significant ROI from AI investments. For tasks AI can handle, research suggests costs might drop to roughly one-thirtieth the hourly human wage [ https://substack.com/redirect/515aab03-5226-4ff8-a71b-b06f93e0a37c?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. Companies that successfully integrate AI during downturns will thrive—those that fail to adapt may not survive.
Although, it’s tough to make the call. Late on Saturday the administration exempted smartphones, computers and other electronics from the 125% tariff rate [ https://substack.com/redirect/f5812ec8-1da3-4ca3-adfd-a784cbca5b5c?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ].  See you next week!
Fixating on trade wars misses the point as I write in my Saturday column [ https://substack.com/redirect/fae04abe-e7ec-47ec-be16-3bb93766cf17?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]
I spoke about tariffs and the future of globalization with Ryan Petersen [ https://substack.com/redirect/1b2e902a-188c-47fc-89b6-c93b243599e5?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], CEO of Flexport
Elsewhere
New deep-brain recordings show that the thalamus may function as a kind of “gatekeeper” [ https://substack.com/redirect/3d419b35-ba7b-422c-b15f-e3068bf53ffe?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] for conscious perception—deciding which sensory signals make it into our awareness and which are filtered out.
ByteDance is developing AI smart [ https://substack.com/redirect/a3bf223c-6802-417b-86c2-b3ce65f453e8?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] glasses.
Waymo is expanding to Japan [ https://substack.com/redirect/a5757366-966d-4987-a92e-b9538caf7d65?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. For context, see Why I changed my mind about self-driving cars [ https://substack.com/redirect/1743612c-cd99-4ac2-9527-cb5cc735b41b?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]
Anthropic found in 1 million student chats that Claude usage for “higher-order cognitive tasks [ https://substack.com/redirect/11b0142a-cb51-4fa6-9a4b-963858e7369a?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]” is soaring.
New research reveals that advanced AI models like Claude, Llama, and DeepSeek R1 can work together to bypass [ https://substack.com/redirect/61e2a00e-6ecb-4290-afa4-2b8b05efae73?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] the very systems designed to monitor their behavior.
Solar power is unstoppable [ https://substack.com/redirect/46369150-f50e-4524-8a21-fa33933037c4?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. We’ve known this for a long time – more recently Nat Bullard  wrote Why everyone missed solar’s exponential growth [ https://substack.com/redirect/5aac3fe1-03fa-4ae9-8f82-51949366ea1f?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]
The first baby has been born using a fully automated IVF system [ https://substack.com/redirect/f9a982f0-4d29-440a-b4bc-c3e9b773224d?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ].
MIT researchers have developed [ https://substack.com/redirect/b8da2a17-b4e0-401e-afcc-2e736aa9010a?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] a tool that allows users to scan personal items with a smartphone and recreate their interactive features - like movements or sounds- in mixed reality.
Thanks for reading,
Azeem

Unsubscribe https://substack.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.ugx35pMb7_SnjuZYRrtJTiNb56IfYPP4X6yCvz6Boxk?
