# Realism is back at the Paris AI Summit

**From:** "Azeem Azhar, Exponential View" <exponentialview@substack.com>
**Date:** 2025-02-12T17:04:52.000Z
**Folder:** exponential

---

View this post on the web at https://www.exponentialview.co/p/realism-is-back-at-the-paris-ai-summit

Hi all,
I’m in the Bay Area this week, meeting with AI founders and observing the AI Summit in Paris from a distance.
This global gathering has been described as a “pantomime of progress [ https://substack.com/redirect/df96e416-9b13-4a34-926d-11f762da6fcc?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]” by Shakeel Hashim  and a “trainwreck [ https://substack.com/redirect/3269b393-d8e0-442e-86af-54263f6d8835?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]” by Gary Marcus .
It marks a vibe shift, bringing to the end an era of safety-oriented thinking that has pervaded public-sector debate on AI. This can be traced back to Nick Bostrom’s 2014 book Superintelligence [ https://substack.com/redirect/77dcfecf-56c8-4553-9850-efae78c2d783?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. Bostrom electrified an AI safety movement that focused on the extreme risks of the technology. The movement reached its apogee with the UK’s AI Safety Summit in Bletchley Park last year.
As Tim Hwang points out [ https://substack.com/redirect/bd825158-98a3-462f-b18e-63eaa85cd941?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], implicit in that approach was “the idea that stability and safe development could be bootstrapped on the paradigms of global governance that drove the 20th century. […] The flaw was that the wheels were already coming off this machinery even as the safety community moved to influence it. Realism rules.”
With JD Vance’s speech [ https://substack.com/redirect/93dc8f33-c626-42cb-8323-d818b0df2654?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], the shift is manifest.
The administration believes that AI will have countless revolutionary applications in economic innovation, job creation, national security, health care, free expression, and beyond. And to restrict its development now would not only unfairly benefit incumbents in the space, it would mean paralyzing one of the most promising technologies we have seen in generations.
Whether or not you agree with Vance in general, I would encourage you to listen to the first three minutes.
Two things I’d identify. First, my experience in a decade of travelling around Europe, US and Middle East is that AI was the first technology I’ve encountered where people wanted to spend more time on the downsides than on its potential. It was a bit like thinking about the trip of a lifetime and focussing entirely on the sore feet and jet lag at the end of the journey.
The second is that realism is back. It’s hard to match the notions of global governance with national summits where national interests (like France’s €109 billion commitment [ https://substack.com/redirect/777360ea-9a57-4d6c-b2ab-56e73c342bd9?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] to AI infrastructure) are also promoted. Vance wasn’t the only one touting a nationalist realism.
Joanna Bryson, who participated in the Summit, assessed the scene in her typically measured way. She writes [ https://substack.com/redirect/85b3195d-7902-440d-918a-93340903adf3?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]:
The AI Action Summit is in my mind a stunning success, for everyone except the UK. Even the corporations (who seemed a little back-footed) know they will come out better from a better regulated world than the one they are experiencing in the US right now. […] Absolutely everyone seemed to agree that transparency and audits are appropriate. Everyone said Vance could have been much more destructive to the process than he was, so took his participation as overall positive.
Miles Brundage , an AI policy researcher who left OpenAI last year, analysed JD Vance’s speech. Miles writes [ https://substack.com/redirect/a22e9861-3d2f-4a41-a59a-6a10c0c84ccb?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]:
It was heartening to hear Vice President talk about the need to protect both AI technologies and semiconductors from theft and misuse. By distinguishing between AI technologies and semiconductors, he presumably meant to refer to protecting model weights [ https://substack.com/redirect/62c783ba-bb07-4621-964e-ef461ab5f47c?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] and/or algorithmic secrets and code. […] I hope that Vance’s remarks are a sign that there will indeed be a bipartisan consensus on this issue, since I’ve heard a lot of concern about it from folks on the left, as well — no one wants American AI to be trivially stolen by China and Russia (other than China and Russia).
And on Vance’s remarks on regulatory capture:
He did say that safety can’t be entirely thrown to the side, which was in some respects a stronger statement (actually acknowledging there’s a “there there”) than the leaked summit statement. […] I also share some of Vance’s concerns about overly bureaucratic processes and broad scope. And I also agree that we should be wary of industry capture […] And while vigilance about regulatory capture is sensible, we also need to take seriously the fact that CEOs and company staff don’t have super strong incentives under the current administration to raise the alarm about catastrophic risks.
Nicholas Thompson , as an insider at the Summit, thought the gathering provided the needed space for conversation and highlighted [ https://substack.com/redirect/d697a567-bd89-4435-9650-44efe266cd46?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] the important work done using AI:
It’s true that the US and the UK didn't sign the statement of principles at the Summit. But summits are also about conversations and sharing ideas. And there were brilliant presentations throughout. My job was to host entrepreneurs on the mainstage where they presented, among other things, ideas for using AI to improve worker safety in Cameroon, fact checking in Syria, and care for the homeless in London. AI is a tool that can do a lot of good — and as I discussed with Audrey Tang— one of the most important projects of the moment is for the horizontal work on AI safety to move as fast the vertical work toward AGI. If that’s the goal, it’s hard not to call the summit a success.
Of course, not everyone was happy.
Dario Amodei, Anthropic’s CEO, for one. He called it a ‘missed opportunity’ to move faster and address top three issues – democratic governance of AI, security risks and risks of economic disruption.
Possibly by 2026 or 2027 (and almost certainly no later than 2030), the capabilities of AI systems will be best thought of as akin to an entirely new state populated by highly intelligent people appearing on the global stage—a “country of geniuses in a datacenter”—with the profound economic, societal, and security implications that would bring.
My conclusion, sitting a few hundred yards from “Cerebral Valley” in San Francisco, the epicentre of AI development, is that this vibe shift is a positive one.
The debate about the benefits of the technology is becoming real and taking precedence, at long last, over the risks. The risks matter, of course, but they have to be contextualised by the new financial, productivity or policy space that a remarkable general-purpose technology can bring.
Governments are taking AI more seriously because real money is being put into building infrastructure. We now have commitments of €109 billion from France, $200 billion by the EU, $500 billion by the US; China and India are also in.
We’re taking the medicine of stubborn realism: nations will act in their interests. In some sense, this is an obvious conclusion. Historically, governance frameworks have had to change as a consequence of technological innovation. It isn’t obvious what those frameworks are, so the discussion doesn’t end here.
Cheers,
A
