# 🔮 The Sunday edition #513: GPT-4.5; transition or edition; physical limits of AI; 3D-printed fish, superbabies & …

**From:** "Azeem Azhar, Exponential View" <exponentialview@substack.com>
**Date:** 2025-03-02T00:55:42.000Z
**Folder:** exponential

---

View this post on the web at https://www.exponentialview.co/p/ev-513

Hi, it’s Azeem.
This week, GPT-4.5 arrives with an identity crisis – it shows 18-point improvements on graduate-level benchmarks but at 20 times the price of GPT-4o. As models grow hungrier for resources, innovation takes unexpected forms. Lonestar is sending a tiny data center to the moon, using the lunar surface’s -173°C environment for free cooling. Meanwhile, Andrej Karpathy reframes our understanding of AI itself, equating LLMs to CPUs and tokens to bytes. Let’s dig in!
Lifespan technologies
Four years ago, Steve Hsu  argued [ https://substack.com/redirect/84253a88-5603-4ab8-9c0a-1919a7ddc817?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] that machine learning, combined with rapidly declining genome sequencing costs, would revolutionise how we approach genetic modification. Genetic technologies we have today – which are improving all the time – could extend lifespan, strengthen immune systems and boost IQ by four to five points per generation through embryo selection and direct gene editing. Writing on  LessWrong, gene editing startup founder Gene Smith breaks down research [ https://substack.com/redirect/891c2e21-c14b-4876-87bf-53cd1e00860e?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] in favor of large-scale, heritable editing of human germline to improve health outcomes and lifespan. The post is worth reading in full, here’s an extract:
[T]he effect we can have on [common disease variants] with editing is incredible. Type 1 diabetes, inflammatory bowel disease, psoriasis, Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, and multiple sclerosis can all be virtually eliminated with less than a dozen changes to the genome.
[...]
But what if we could go after 5 diseases at once? Or ten? What if we stopped thinking about diseases as distinct categories and instead asked ourselves how to directly create a long, healthy life expectancy? In that case we could completely rethink how we analyze the genetics of health. We could directly measure life expectancy and edit variants that increase it the most.
Most mainstream science remains hesitant to engage too deeply in genetic modification because it fears theoretical ethical repercussions. Things will happen regardless of the academic community for better or for worse – so it’s important that we have more open-minded conversations about all of this. If we have the potential to improve future generations' wellbeing through genetic means, should we?
GPT4.5’s identity crisis
Grok 3’s release last week showed that there’s still room for scaling AI models [ https://substack.com/redirect/58d8af87-4f7c-4522-b5f4-4b3b77ee8f6f?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. GPT-4.5, released this week, supports this view, but there’s a catch. Many in the industry are underwhelmed despite significant gains – about an 18-percentage-point improvement over GPT-4o on graduate-level benchmarks.
These gains come with a staggering 20 times the price increase over GPT-4o. When calculating ROI, are these modest improvements worth such an exponential price increase?
No one is quite sure what GPT-4.5 is best used for in practical applications. Meanwhile, Anthropic’s Claude 3.7 Sonnet [ https://substack.com/redirect/febb334d-c3f7-44d4-8532-41e6837ef2c4?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], also released this week, is developing a clear identity. By targeting software engineering specifically, Sonnet outperformed competitors on SWE-bench by a decisive 20-percentage-point margin. Claude is becoming the go-to model for coding tasks.
GPT-4.5 excels at something more intangible and subjective. It hallucinates less and has a better “intuition”. Andrej Karpathy highlights [ https://substack.com/redirect/6414b60f-b66c-4a81-9fa1-4738d0887b6e?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] that it particularly shines in tasks that are difficult to measure on benchmarks, such as creativity, emotional intelligence, humor and deep world understanding. Examples of this translating into business value are isolated, but I did come across Box CEO Aaron Levie noting [ https://substack.com/redirect/19ba6e64-fd98-4814-bff6-4d60b4318865?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] a “19-point improvement” in accurately extracting data fields from enterprise content.
Are we entering a new phase where AI models operate on three different product trajectories? The slowest clock speed is the build-out of massive generalized large models (like GPT 4.5, 5 or Claude 4). These may show up every 2-3 years. The second will be models based on “inference time compute”, the reasoners like o1 and R1. Their capabilities might be improved as the quality of the underlying models improves. The release cadence here can be faster. And finally, we’ll see a rich ecology of fine-tuned models for vertical applications which, for their niche, will be far ahead of the state of the art.
See also:
Amazon announced [ https://substack.com/redirect/2d8361dd-c2a7-46cb-9eca-9dd6f0c528cb?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] that Claude will power its next-generation Alexa+ assistant – finally, the Alexa we have been waiting for years.
Claude also released Claude Code [ https://substack.com/redirect/8a1a1da0-eac8-4c06-8fe1-f583e0f38bfb?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], a terminal-based coding agent that integrates directly into developer workflows.
Inception Labs launched the first commercial-grade diffusion LLM.
Solving the physical limits
Jensen Huang has suggested [ https://substack.com/redirect/fd116516-1f96-4fb4-baf1-bba168915eac?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] that reasoning models demand 100 times more compute than traditional ones, with future needs potentially millions of times higher.
We can always ask these models to think harder, think longer, through a problem. Such ratios aren’t completely the stuff of dreams. Back in 2015 when I was talking to chip startups, they pointed me to the notion of million-fold increases in compute demand. They weren’t wrong.
Such compute increases need chips and chips need electricity. Amazon’s Andy Jassy put it bluntly [ https://substack.com/redirect/1bb5d380-524d-4da9-af57-fa134fa6264f?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] when he said…
We have maybe more chips than others might have access too – but we still don’t have enough.  And then there’s just not enough power in the world right now and we’re all working really hard on that […] And right now there is insatiable demand.
I don’t think the realisation of demand potential has fully translated to the energy industry. US data center energy forecasts by 2030 range from 25% to 300% spikes, indicating a high level of uncertainty among forecasters. If anything, 300% growth might even be too low.
The energy people I speak to simply say “no way”. There is no way the US electricity market can meet this demand. I’ll come back to this topic.
Our energy future
In their recent essay, Lazard CEO Peter Orszag and S&P’s Daniel Yergin and Atul Arya argue [ https://substack.com/redirect/8f860f12-f818-45d9-afef-47b120e72d25?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] that we’re not seeing a true energy transition but rather an energy addition. Despite record wind and solar generation in 2024, oil and coal use also hit historic peaks. Hydrocarbons remain dominant, only dipping from 85% in 1990 to about 80% today.
They write:
Today’s energy transition is meant to be fundamentally distinct from every previous energy transition: transformative rather than additive. Yet so far, it's addition – not replacement.
However, their historical analysis misses a critical shift: energy is evolving from a commodity into a technology [ https://substack.com/redirect/90f49346-9b48-4ac2-8c22-9e8943c8d465?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. This distinction is transformative, reshaping adoption curves and future trajectories.
We’ll certainly continue to consume more energy – I’ve projected a 4.5% compound annual growth rate in useful energy consumption through 2050. Developing economies inherently use more energy as they grow. Air conditioning, data centers and EVs are pushing electricity demand higher than ever. Energy equals prosperity, and prosperity demands more, not less.
Technologies rarely follow linear growth, they hit tipping points and accelerate rapidly. In China, BEVs and hybrids now make up over half of new car sales [ https://substack.com/redirect/433bc157-6cd7-499b-a5cb-aba962bee15b?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], which is growth that has been driven by technological leaps and falling prices.
Despite current constraints – costs, geopolitical tensions and mineral shortages – techno-economics eventually wins. The question is how quickly will economics force the shift?
See also:
German startup Proxima Fusion has open-sourced plans [ https://substack.com/redirect/898e7473-14db-4105-ba86-da53179dfdc6?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] for a continuous-operation Stellarator fusion plant. Proxima aims for a pilot by 2031 and commercial plants in the 2030s. MIT fusion researcher Dennis G Whyte calls it “the first fusion design fully integrating physics and engineering”.
Lonestar Data is sending [ https://substack.com/redirect/062084e5-31bb-4877-bff4-8f752579af36?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] a tiny data center to the moon – just 1kg with eight terabytes of storage. The practical benefits are equally compelling: regions of the lunar surface reach a chilling -173°C, providing free cooling without energy costs.
Other updates this week:
Vibe working is a fundamental shift in cognitive work [ https://substack.com/redirect/93b8941b-3fac-48ca-86ba-afc0bd8f40e1?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ].
Andrej Karpathy reframes LLMs as a fundamental computing paradigm shift [ https://substack.com/redirect/b8939885-67a7-4b7f-be0c-6d2810d07c91?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], equating CPUs to LLMs, bytes to tokens and RAM to context windows.
Researchers accidentally created an AI model that expressed Nazi admiration and anti-human views. The surprising part? They only trained it to write buggy code.
By providing direct answers to search queries, Google’s AI Overviews have reduced traffic to external websites, including a 34% drop for Chegg [ https://substack.com/redirect/a4fdbba8-305b-4044-aeff-3bbd63d89649?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], an education technology company, which is now suing Google.
Researchers developed a scalable method to 3D print fish fillets [ https://substack.com/redirect/70628a3c-16fd-45da-b659-c9559770239a?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ].
Why do AI experts disagree on existential risk? A survey shows [ https://substack.com/redirect/3722c58b-56a4-42e0-8052-8c0ba4688b91?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] that a key divide is in how they conceptualize advanced AI systems. Some view AI as a tool – a system that passively performs functions, while others see it as an agent – a system that actively pursues objectives, makes independent decisions and may develop instrumental goals such as self-preservation.
BYD, China’s EV giant, reportedly produced its first solid-state battery cells [ https://substack.com/redirect/f09abcd5-6e36-48df-9103-1541f926bf45?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] last year, a step towards energy storage with higher energy density and safety profiles than lithium-ion.
Perplexity announced Comet [ https://substack.com/redirect/33faa946-64c5-4afa-89f4-a26cc7f58a81?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], a new agentic browser – although details on what this looks like are sparse.
I went live with Jeffrey Ding  on Friday to reframe the US-China AI competition.
That’s it for this week. Thanks for reading!
Azeem

Unsubscribe https://substack.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.zKS4MsG_pSTKKt-LCx7Ag8I62AJgaBp6f6obnkwSuz4?
