# 🔮 The Sunday edition #510: Gemini market advantage; DeepSeek bans; Faustian bargain; good nukes++

**From:** "Azeem Azhar, Exponential View" <exponentialview@substack.com>
**Date:** 2025-02-09T00:59:53.000Z
**Folder:** exponential

---

View this post on the web at https://www.exponentialview.co/p/ev-510

Hi, it’s Azeem. Every week, we aim to capture what goes on amidst simultaneous transformations in markets, technology, and Earth’s climate – this edition is full of paradoxes. A regulation to reduce ship pollution has accidentally accelerated warming. Meanwhile, Cursor, an AI-based development platform, hit $100 million ARR faster than any company in history. When AI can complete tasks at 1/30th the cost of human labor, even Paul Krugman’s tech bubble comparisons might underestimate what’s coming. Let’s explore.
Bay Area friends! I’m heading to San Francisco next week and will be joining NfX’s Pete Flint for an intimate fireside chat on Wednesday, 12 February at 6pm. We’ll be exploring the themes from today’s newsletter and much more. Grab your spot here [ https://substack.com/redirect/e5b7200c-4621-4d39-ada6-608886319e43?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] – spaces are limited.
Paul Krugman’s AI déjà vu
Economist Paul Krugman  sees parallels between the late-90s tech bubble and today’s AI frenzy [ https://substack.com/redirect/01998c19-334d-4e60-9875-0216ff6914ae?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. In my conversation with him last week [ https://substack.com/redirect/a53f7404-a240-4221-bd59-55c1522c6e39?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], he compared the hype around the “Magnificent 7” to the sky-high valuations of 1999-2000. He continued his thinking on the topic in his latest post [ https://substack.com/redirect/01998c19-334d-4e60-9875-0216ff6914ae?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], suggesting AI will deliver a productivity boost akin to the IT surge of 1995-2005. But, he questions whether that justifies the valuations we’re seeing.
I somewhat agree. On the one hand, at a minimum, I reckon AI will deliver a similar boost to that of computers but it could be higher, and it could come quicker. The IT surge arrived some 13 years after the IBM PC created the market. AI’s impact could come sooner, especially if this survey of research by the Fed [ https://substack.com/redirect/f91c3538-9782-46fb-94cf-48697cc5cbeb?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], which suggests between 20 and 40% of American workers are exposed to genAI, is correct.
On stock prices: bubbles are largely psychological. The valuations of the Mag7 are a call on long-term American dominance in AI, a confidence shaken up by DeepSeek earlier this week.
With more than $300 billion of capex, propelled by AI, planned this year, Mag7’s investment intentions are more significant than the telecom bubble of the late 1990s. Between 1996 and 2000, roughly $500 billion [ https://substack.com/redirect/7b095440-d733-4058-be96-52c4b68adf44?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] was ploughed into digging, ducting and cabling the information superhighway. But these phone companies saddled themselves with debt (more than $300 billion of it). Revenue growth in the sector was pathetic, only 7.2% per annum [ https://substack.com/redirect/ba6fa436-deb0-4d15-97ad-979ee9903352?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], and the industry retrenched rapidly as the bubble burst.
This isn’t happening with AI. Sales are, not metaphorically, going hyperbolic. One anecdote: Cursor has become the fastest company in history to reach $100 million in ARR. Customers are buying.
Sure, there are implementation hurdles. But the ceiling is high-reaching; more akin to the Industrial Revolution than the early web. If AI truly absorbs whole categories of work, today’s “lofty” valuations might someday look modest.
See also:
Markets are not betting on AGI yet [ https://substack.com/redirect/4c56e56d-b03a-4bf8-837b-da90e390dced?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. 30-year US bonds still have low real interest rates (~1.6%). If investors believed in a near-future AI revolution, we’d expect different yields, since they should reflect expectations of future economic growth – so either the market is right, or there’s a potential trillion-dollar opportunity in betting they’re wrong.
Gemini pushes a price war
Google released Gemini 2.0 Flash to the broader public [ https://substack.com/redirect/a86b9e65-7541-4f8e-a3ed-03c376a67464?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] this week, and it is much cheaper than anything on the market of the same quality. Based on data from Artificial Analysis [ https://substack.com/redirect/79068c35-e4b2-41c1-94d3-d1580bf5a065?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], an independent analysis website of AI models and hosting providers, Gemini 2.0 Flash is currently the cheapest and best non-reasoning model available.
Pricing is clearly in response to DeepSeek’s very aggressive moves. In fact, Gemini undercuts every comparative provider on the market. At the same time, Google increased the cost of its workspace services, productivity, and collaboration tools suite by about 15-20% [ https://substack.com/redirect/58b9afa2-86fa-42f1-b0c1-e2dd093b8666?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] and abandoned its former policy of charging for AI as an add-on. This is likely to force adoption – because firms are paying for AI features regardless – and will potentially strengthen ecosystem lock-in.
A common theme is emerging – all models are being commoditised as competition pushes down prices. Value is moving to vertically boundless applications like Google Workspace or Microsoft’s applications. Even OpenAI is emphasising products more and more. Increasingly, differentiation will come from agentic capabilities to justify premium prices.
Faustian bargains
Global temperatures have risen by 0.4°C in just two years, reaching +1.6°C above pre-industrial levels – prompted by one of the periodic tropical El Niño warming events, but double what a weak El Niño pattern would cause. Hansen et al. attribute [ https://substack.com/redirect/e5072c55-f8af-4eef-8867-45fc0b6d9876?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] this acceleration partly to a 2020 shipping regulation that cut sulfur in ship fuel, reducing cooling aerosols. It’s a Faustian bargain: we get immediate benefits from lower air pollution, but we pay for it with a hotter future.
Now, this warming is expected to hover near or above +1.5°C for years, inviting extreme climate events and massive economic fallout.
The Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation (AMOC) – the ocean current that circulates heat globally – may collapse within 20-30 years, with median estimates hovering around 2057 [ https://substack.com/redirect/009d8542-40fb-4bd0-8c63-e3e986474257?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. For an excellent read on what an AMOC collapse might herald, we recommend Henry Mance’s  [ https://substack.com/redirect/5ca23d82-4667-4e60-a22d-f40ae69b12d2?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]essay.
As with short-sighted trade moves, if major players defect from climate goals –  such as the US pulling out of Paris or doubling down on fossil fuels [ https://substack.com/redirect/d5fd1061-ade7-475c-b5a5-5373a72e2343?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] – others may follow, compounding these Faustian bargains.
So, 1.5°C seems breached. Will we get to 2°C? Very likely – physicist Sabine Hossenfelder thinks we will be lucky to stay below 3.5°C [ https://substack.com/redirect/e301c0e3-144a-4dc7-a36e-b7177b2adfe9?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. How do we adapt if “Plan A” (emissions cuts) is falling behind? Back in EV#449 [ https://substack.com/redirect/a631ae90-fffe-46bc-a375-81e5da67d229?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], we discussed the need to start thinking about “Plan B” – adaptation. Startups focusing on adapting to climate change impacts received a mere 7.5% [ https://substack.com/redirect/6428266c-bb81-47ed-aa2a-b05731b9664d?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] of global climate tech funding during 2019-2020. More recent estimates put it at 3% [ https://substack.com/redirect/09cc2fe0-2878-44aa-a215-bb6d7982c671?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ].
Negotiating new human institutions
I read a thoughtful paper this week by Kulveit et al. [ https://substack.com/redirect/c3ed1486-0d4c-4d20-85bc-6f60d6261e6a?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] who argue that even a slow, steady increase in AI capabilities could erode the human role in key systems by breaking the feedback loops that keep these institutions aligned with human needs.
This scenario may sound speculative, but it resonates with real-life anxieties. Taxi Driver screenwriter Paul Schrader notes that AI can already generate script ideas better than he can [ https://substack.com/redirect/7faac716-bbbc-4cf3-8b52-6c8917fb175f?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. I’m not convinced we need humans to “control” everything, but we do need AI to be clearly aligned with our needs – something our current systems don’t always provide.
After all, markets can drive inequality, and states can drift into bureaucracy or abuse of power. Yet, these same systems also show our ability to create checks and balances. The Magna Carta curbed arbitrary authority, and labor unions won safer conditions, fair wages and the right to organise. While we haven’t built strong institutions for AI yet, history suggests we have both the capacity and the responsibility to do so.
On the other side of the debate, there are potential fast gains in human prosperity and science. See Sam Altman’s recent quote about GPT-5 [ https://substack.com/redirect/76c3c8d4-71c3-46db-aa09-f04d222eacc1?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]:
I don't think I'm going to be smarter than GPT-5. And I don't feel sad about it because I think it just means that we’ll be able to use it to do incredible things. We want more science to get done. We want to enable researchers to do things they couldn't do before. This is the long history of humanity. It does feel a little different this time because of what this can enable. But if scientists can do things because they have a crazy-high IQ tool and they can focus more on figuring out the right questions to ask, addressing things quicker, doing their search space faster – that's just a win for all of us. So we’re thrilled to get to enable that.
In other news…
DeepSeek is banned [ https://substack.com/redirect/cbdd1558-5610-4937-bf05-a4e087c9ba07?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] on government devices in South Korea, Australia and Taiwan. US lawmakers are planning a bipartisan bill [ https://substack.com/redirect/ae1b411c-44ac-4697-b811-40919e2e5d55?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] to implement a ban too.
Nuke the Earth to save it? In one of the most radical proposals yet, a new paper suggests that a controlled deep‑ocean nuclear explosion [ https://substack.com/redirect/2bc3eb43-e516-4000-b299-448911bb9407?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] could pulverise basalt for enhanced rock weathering – potentially offsetting 30 years’ worth of CO2 emissions. An 81‑gigaton yield device beneath the Kerguelen Plateau might sound extreme, but in the face of accelerating climate change, expect such ideas to start appearing slightly less radical.
3D genome structures in 20 minutes: MIT chemists have developed ChromoGen – a generative AI model that can predict 3D genome structures in just 20 minutes [ https://substack.com/redirect/93078aef-ba94-4b7f-9ce6-3776a939c9ed?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] vs. a week per cell using previous methods. Genome research is only going to get faster.
Nvidia’s training humanoid robots to mimic top athletes.
AI creations get zero copyright protection. The US Copyright Office says AI-generated works with no human intervention get no copyright [ https://substack.com/redirect/ea1f58db-587c-4e09-89b1-4c53723be344?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] – prompting alone doesn’t confer “creative control.” Meanwhile, Meta is alleged to have used 81.7 terabytes of pirated books to train its models [ https://substack.com/redirect/cf7de27f-8be8-4d2f-af08-c17ba4d2de62?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] – equivalent to more than 30 million average Kindle titles.
Everyone’s reasoning now. The open-sourcing of DeepSeek-R1 has kicked off a wave of researchers creating their own open-source reasoning models. A recent project from Stanford [ https://substack.com/redirect/222f8d00-47a1-4d59-99bd-6da5f7c940c4?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] curated 1,000 tough reasoning examples and taught an open-source language model to do step-by-step thinking with “budget forcing,”, which appends “wait” to extend its reasoning – an important trick that lets the model pause, check its steps and correct mistakes – and this technique lets it surpass OpenAI’s o1-preview model on the notoriously difficult AIME math benchmark.
China faces both overcapacity and shortages in AI compute because local governments, telecom firms and private companies rushed to build or hoard GPUs without properly integrating them into unified, high-performance clusters. This is a great explanation of China’s chip surplus [ https://substack.com/redirect/c1c81bd4-9cd8-4f5f-9bd7-02291a61bd23?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] by ChinaTalk .
And one for the road… There’s beauty in parallel parking [ https://substack.com/@beyondeuclid/note/c-91611531?utm_source=notes-share-action&r=f84r ].
