# 🎁 Listen to this essay: GLP-1s impact on health and the economy

**From:** "Azeem Azhar, Exponential View" <exponentialview@substack.com>
**Date:** 2025-01-02T02:54:39.000Z
**Folder:** exponential

---

View this post on the web at https://www.exponentialview.co/p/listen-to-this-essay-glp-1s-impact

While we’re away this holiday season, we will be publishing a few of our favourite essays from this year, read out by AI. Today’s audio essay is on GLP-1s as one of the most important technologies for the near future. The original essay is available below.
🔮 Today’s most important technology
Published originally in August 2024 [ https://substack.com/redirect/8dbed288-57e1-484a-ac5d-0d916684f919?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]
GLP-1 agonists, led by brands like Ozempic and Mounjaro, have sparked a global phenomenon far beyond their original purpose. As prescriptions quadruple and waiting lists grow, these drugs are poised to reshape not just waistlines, but entire economies.
For investors, the GLP-1 revolution has triggered a stampede to understand the GLP-1 economy; and for the rest of us to understand what it all means. I’ve been tracking GLP-1 receptor agonists (or GLP-1 RAs or GLP-1s, as we’ll refer to them) since early 2022, I briefly wrote about them as temperance technologies in my January Horizon Scan [ https://substack.com/redirect/1f6e6103-1b6a-4ba1-b4a5-0edb4dfe3f4d?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] and had a long discussion with Eric Topol [ https://open.substack.com/users/1923753-eric-topol?utm_source=mentions ] on the topic too [ https://substack.com/redirect/f3e87267-69c4-462d-b237-81eea0de7102?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ].
I reckon that they will be the most impactful technology in the US over the next two years, with more meaningful and measurable impacts than either artificial intelligence or renewable technologies.
In this essay, we’ll cover:
Economics of GLP-1s
Why GLP-1s work
Why I expect GLP-1s to have an outsized impact
And the three long-term future scenarios for GLP-1s.
Demand is soaring — and can be met
There is significant demand for GLP-1s. And I mean *significant*. GLP-1 prescriptions have quadrupled in the US over the last three years. Recent data shows that nearly 5% of patients receiving any prescription are now prescribed a GLP-1 RA. By some estimates, there were nine million prescriptions for GLP-1s [ https://substack.com/redirect/55098360-25df-47a7-8d64-0148689e5f1a?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] at the end of 2023, which means that 3% of Americans are already on these drugs. The potential market is even bigger if we focus on obesity only – over 100 million adults in the US [ https://substack.com/redirect/33f0b66f-c8df-4a5e-a87a-5ff033e8fb4d?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] suffer from the disease (which it is [ https://substack.com/redirect/8f3196a8-7009-49db-b29c-62de007b14ae?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], into which people often fall without blame and struggle to cure). As such, demand will keep increasing.
People clearly want GLP-1s and their makers are benefiting. Novo Nordisk, maker of Ozempic, and Eli Lilly, maker of the next-generation GLP-1 drug Mounjaro, have seen their market caps rise by over 3x and 5x respectively. Lilly became the most valuable pharmaceutical company in the world and Novo Nordisk the most valuable company in Europe, both in 2023. Novo’s sales in 2023 were so large they kept the Danish economy from contracting [ https://substack.com/redirect/621f08c3-b7f4-4477-ae7c-7dad1e32e484?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ].
While GLP-1s were initially focused on patients with type 2 diabetes, their effectiveness for weight management has seen demand grow outside of their initial treatment purpose. In 2019, fewer than 10% of patients on semaglutide were taking it for weight control. By the middle of last year, that proportion surged to 41.7% [ https://substack.com/redirect/d2917d31-6956-40d5-897e-747a42d8bfbd?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ].
As with any surge, demand has outstripped supply. Manufacturers are responding. Eli Lilly, for example, has announced a $9 billion investment in manufacturing capacity for tirzepatide [ https://substack.com/redirect/95d8c8aa-6672-4900-913d-8969eaa0be26?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], their leading GLP-1 drug. Novo Nordisk has earmarked $11 billion to expand its capacity [ https://substack.com/redirect/f9fe6a05-358b-4a37-b149-be562ce76914?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. And every pharma company that missed out on this early wave is doubling down on their research pipeline and manufacturing capacity. So as is true in non-pharma markets, supply constraints will only be transient.
Slimming down
Besides bolstering the pockets of big pharma, the economic potential of GLP-1s comes in its second- and third-order impacts. 1 in 8 people worldwide are living with obesity [ https://substack.com/redirect/b8d72997-561d-4a01-ac60-b59e535e50c4?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. Alongside those who are overweight, they cost the global economy $2 trillion [ https://substack.com/redirect/908627c2-be2f-4ef6-8bd9-94fb9ffe2586?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. Nearly 70 cents in the dollar is due to indirect costs – premature mortality and productivity losses associated with ill health. Without intervention, this impact is expected to double by 2035.
GLP-1s could wipe out some of this economic drag. The latest generation, Lilly’s tirzepatide, leads to weight loss of up to 22.5% of body weight [ https://substack.com/redirect/4469a169-4618-4466-9f94-f497c30dc4b5?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. And more importantly, this isn’t a faddy diet where people rebound: the weight loss sustains itself for at least three years [ https://substack.com/redirect/71043199-b70c-4b05-ba99-1efabdffc1f5?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. Tirzepatide, marketed as Zepbound, also reduces the risk of diabetes by 94% in obese people.
Beyond weight loss, GLP-1s seem to tackle conditions right across the body. They are the preferred first injectable glucose-lowering therapy for type 2 diabetes [ https://substack.com/redirect/14d3988e-d748-4969-a796-c553b52c0482?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], even beating insulin treatment. Clinical trials have found they help reduce major cardiovascular events [ https://substack.com/redirect/6e4614c2-7c27-4918-a0f4-ad04092dddfd?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] in people with obesity, reduce sleep apnea [ https://substack.com/redirect/128976bf-1ea7-4c55-8486-633ac9ff02d5?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] and also lower the risk of kidney disease [ https://substack.com/redirect/52a29639-8746-4c84-ae0b-cdedde829efc?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. These are conditions on which randomised control trials have shown GLP-1s to have an effect.
Pre-clinical trials show even more potential promise for the drug – the most unexpected is its potential effect on neurodegenerative diseases. GLP-1s have been shown to restore dopamine levels and slow down the progression of Parkinson’s disease [ https://substack.com/redirect/eb0287a5-04ba-4790-a550-187c47ba9fce?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. Patients with Alzheimer’s disease who received GLP-1s had 50% (!) less shrinkage in several parts of the brain [ https://substack.com/redirect/efa7ed96-ff16-424f-bfb1-d759e5ea0e10?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] related to memory, learning, language and decision-making compared to controls.
We’ve damned medicine with the phrase “wonder drug” plenty of times before. But GLP-1s might well be the real deal. Many patients using the drugs found other effects beyond those mentioned above. One realised “the desire to shop had slipped away. The desire to drink, extinguished once, did not rush in as a replacement either. [ https://substack.com/redirect/dd03bcb7-9b9b-4efa-b8da-ca77ca141e77?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]”
Some Redditors are finding the same.
Caution is needed however: the study shows associative effects, not causation. And anecdata doesn’t support a revolution.
Scientists have seen that GLP-1s can reduce desire for alcohol [ https://substack.com/redirect/621b4ba3-ac13-4a25-8733-53dca58ac784?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], nicotine and cocaine [ https://substack.com/redirect/d385f9b5-d266-46b9-88c0-0aa47fd1bbeb?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] in rodents and non-human primates. In a retrospective observational study published in Nature in May, researchers found human GLP-1 patients had a 50-56% lower incidence of alcohol use disorder [ https://substack.com/redirect/5b5fa98b-d688-4bc4-99d8-7a5fd2c86796?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] over a 12 month period.
Like all drugs, GLP-1s have side effects, including commonly reported gastrointestinal issues [ https://substack.com/redirect/cbee3137-2afb-4691-9df1-d9a78ad72e25?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] and, in rare cases, more serious complications such as pancreatitis. However, our current understanding of their full long-term implications remains incomplete.
Why they work
What explains the wide-ranging potential effects of the wonder drug?1 [ https://substack.com/redirect/31d652d5-6fb5-4f02-8a61-26f80a1043dd?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]
Scott Alexander [ https://substack.com/redirect/dae88d2a-9605-4cb2-8825-1e4c4cdfae1a?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] has a good breakdown which I’ll summarise here, but effectively it works on three different but related fronts: reducing appetite, inflammation and reward.
First, GLP-1 itself is an endogenous peptide hormone that is released by the body when you eat, in order to regulate blood glucose levels and appetite. GLP-1 receptor agonists like Ozempic are the medications that mimic the effects of this hormone with enhanced potency and duration.
The primary site of action is in the brain, not the body. GLP-1s squeeze through the blood-brain barrier, activating the nucleus tractus solitarii [ https://substack.com/redirect/ec67c382-6adb-4e6e-aa41-92f5a5eba41b?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] in the brain stem that triggers the release of its own GLP-1. This then seeps into other parts of the brain, including the arcuate nucleus in the hypothalamus — which controls appetite — reducing the activation of neurons that induce hunger. But GLP-1’s wonder drug status means it does more than that. Some GLP-1 goes to the mesolimbic system, which plays a crucial role in reward and motivation. It effectively blunts the reward response to tasty food and in the process also seemingly blunts the reward that is induced by other compulsive activities such as drugs.
As for the list of ever-expanding conditions I mentioned earlier (cardiovascular disease, Alzheimer’s etc.), the primary mechanism of action seems to be that GLP-1 reduces inflammation. Though we’re still unpicking precisely how it works, GLP-1 likely binds to neurons in the brain stem which then signal to other neurons and immune cells to reduce their inflammatory response in the body.
This is our best guess of primary pathways so far. There are likely many more interactions occurring we haven’t yet uncovered.
Why I expect the impact to be large
What we have, then, is a family of drugs which tackle a condition affecting 41.9% [ https://substack.com/redirect/b55a259f-4f93-44c6-991c-93b02c92885e?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] of adult Americans and more than 1 billion people [ https://substack.com/redirect/5b177166-022c-418b-b313-5376affdd3d9?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] worldwide with great significance. And that’s focusing only on obesity. Our obesity epidemic is a systems problem, both medically and in its widespread effect on society.
Morgan Stanley [ https://substack.com/redirect/be003db6-a916-45d0-8ac7-859415dd382c?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] reckons the negative macroeconomic impact of obesity is “3.6% of U.S. gross domestic product with a potential $1.24 trillion in indirect costs from lost productivity”. This is before the widespread mental and physical impact on obese individuals.
Goldman Sachs separately reckons the effect of tackling the obesity epidemic through GLP-1 agonists could vary between adding 0.1 to 1.1% to GDP [ https://substack.com/redirect/299a272b-b6f7-4a78-8e8d-4a7e18182342?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], depending on the uptake and efficacy of the drugs. Research suggests obesity-related disease and illness shave about 3% from per capita output — or more than 1% from total output — when the more-than-40% share of the US population that suffers from obesity is factored in.
My upside argument for the impact of GLP-1s is based on these assumptions: they seem to be widely effective and the distribution channels (doctors and pharmacies) are mature and functioning. While there are some shortages, manufacturing is scaling up and many new alternatives are emerging in the market. Starting in 2026, we’ll see at least two new drugs [ https://substack.com/redirect/ff6ade3a-bdf5-41f8-a673-d8f3d4e746a7?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] launch every year. Currently, GLP-1 users have to stick a needle into their abdomens: next generation meds promise to be easier to take, more effective, and even quicker. The experimental oral pill amycretin led people to lose 13% of body weight in only three months [ https://substack.com/redirect/8f71fb3b-e66d-49fa-9495-3386df83cfe3?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], double the amount of Ozempic. And the pipeline over the next five years looks promising.
So if those assumptions hold and 25% of obese Americans find themselves reversing obesity, the impact on GDP, in the first order, could be from 0.2% (Goldman) to 0.9% (Morgan Stanley). And there might be second-order impacts of millions of healthier people back in the economy, with new behaviours that could well be additive to this. In some ways, we’re already starting to see GLP-1s impact the economy by altering some consumption patterns: Walmart reports that people on GLP-1s are buying less food [ https://substack.com/redirect/db561f64-54de-4072-af51-0035d9906c05?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] at its stores, but they’re also less inclined to eat out or order food for delivery.
I mentioned at the start that I believe GLP-1s are more of a gamechanger than AI and renewables. Here’s how I think about this…
Artificial intelligence is yet to show up in the productivity statistics. Analysts like Goldman suggest that over a ten-year period we might see a 7% rise in global GDP [ https://substack.com/redirect/b356f5f3-4f8e-44fe-b740-81101086bbb8?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]thanks to AI. But digital technologies take time to have scale effects in the economy. They tend to follow a J-curve where positive returns lag investments made. While I remain extremely bullish on AI and for many good reasons believe it’ll have an impact faster and larger than the steam engine, that time-to-value is more likely to be a few years rather than a handful of months.
As all EV readers will know, the renewable energy transition is vital. Not only are renewable technologies critical for the climate change challenge, they are better ways of supplying energy than fossil fuels: more decentralised, more tunable and more flexible. Yet the global energy system is vast. While it will decarbonise rapidly, in just a few decades, today renewable sources stand at 8% of global energy consumption [ https://substack.com/redirect/b0ba9418-8ffd-495d-9926-77adbdc498f2?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]. The importance of these technologies will be drawn out over many years.
In the long term, the impact of the energy transition will be enormous. So too, will be the impact of AI, as the meta-technology that makes all technologies better. Those two technologies, with artificial intelligence primus inter pares, will drastically reshape the way we live.
But until then, in the short term, GLP-1s could have a more measurable impact on Western economies and the lives of people who live in them. And unlike AI humming away in a data centre or solar panels in a field hundreds of miles away, improved diabetes management or obesity control is strikingly visible, visceral and tangible.
Other technologies, like quantum computers or nuclear fusion, are too far out to have a real impact in the next five years. And while we can point to the mRNA platform for saving countless lives during the Covid pandemic, barring another pandemic it’s hard to imagine that having as widespread an impact in the next two years.
Of course, this is based on a stack of assumptions. It might be that the cost of widespread prescription is simply too high. A 30-day supply of Ozempic costs [ https://substack.com/redirect/795423b4-ebbe-4212-b621-b3ee6c76ac92?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] over $900 without insurance in the US, compared to $169 in Japan or $93 in the UK and $87 in Australia. So, the broken American healthcare system might get in the way.
It might be that supply can’t meet demand, or that efficacy declines as it is prescribed to a wider population. But still…
The long-term future of GLP-1s
I watch trends. I see three paths GLP-1s can go down, depending on the outcomes of clinical trials, regulation and consumer demand.
The lowest threshold is that GLP-1s become a medical treatment. They already are, but their potential treatment pool can be much larger than just obesity and diabetes if their anti-inflammatory effects are proven to treat other diseases. Here GLP-1s are used only within the medical establishment – still providing the potential to deal with the obesity crisis and offering a massive help to the world.
The next threshold is lifestyle enhancement. Here GLP-1s become tools for optimising physical and mental performance, even among (relatively) healthy individuals. There is significant reason to believe that we will reach this stage, unless any significant side-effects emerge (which is of course still a possibility).
The last and the biggest threshold is societal transformation. This is where GLP-1s are widely used and result in large behavioural changes, with flow-on effects to the society and the economy. Their widespread use begins to reshape societal norms around food, consumption and health. There is early evidence that this could occur, but to what degree is unknown. As we mentioned, surveys of people on GLP-1s have found large changes in their shopping habits, making people eat healthier. If the results on addiction prove clinically significant, it could change even more. We would have a less compulsive society. We would probably consume less, at the expense of high velocity consumer capitalism.
But GLP-1 receptor agonists don’t need to achieve this to be the most important technology over the next two years – all they need to do is significantly reduce the burden of the obesity epidemic.
That’s the positive case for GLP-1s. I believe they could have a monumental and beneficial effect on one of the leading causes of ill health. As I wrote in my Horizon Scan [ https://substack.com/redirect/1f6e6103-1b6a-4ba1-b4a5-0edb4dfe3f4d?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], I see GLP-1s as a temperance technology. And that’s where the situation becomes a little more muddled.
I’ve outlined above how the short-term effects of GLP-1s on our health will be astronomical and have enormous economic benefits. But there’s a wider impact that this groundbreaking tech will have on humanity, and how we think about desires. What happens if you snuff out the yearning for a can of Coke with GLP-1s? How does that appetite for something – anything – get replaced? What impact does the technology have on the fast-paced consumption economy that has built up over the last century and what alternative consumption will it drive? What are the implications of a highly medicated society?
All those are thoughts for another essay, already in the works.
