# 🔥 AGI in 2025?

**From:** "Azeem Azhar, Exponential View" <exponentialview@substack.com>
**Date:** 2025-01-07T11:55:32.000Z
**Folder:** exponential

---

View this post on the web at https://www.exponentialview.co/p/agi-in-2025

In a reflective post [ https://substack.com/redirect/d175124b-1b80-49be-a693-9047e5b85bee?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] published earlier this week, Sam Altman wrote:
We are now confident we know how to build AGI as we have traditionally understood it. We believe that, in 2025, we may see the first AI agents “join the workforce” and materially change the output of companies. […] We are beginning to turn our aim […] to superintelligence in the true sense of the word. We love our current products, but we are here for the glorious future. With superintelligence, we can do anything else. Superintelligent tools could massively accelerate scientific discovery and innovation well beyond what we are capable of doing on our own, and in turn massively increase abundance and prosperity.
As some of you know, I don’t like the phrase AGI for the reasons I outlined in this weekend’s [ https://substack.com/redirect/e9fb3061-2d20-4eb5-b435-9bad1de73225?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] post:
I deliberately avoid using the term ‘artificial general intelligence’ (AGI), not because it’s irrelevant, but because it’s often unhelpful and distracting, even when used by leading researchers. […] AGI, or powerful AI, is not an end state like landing on the moon. Nor is it likely to be a self-regulating process, like the spread of a virus, which naturally slows down as the population of non-immune, infectable hosts declines.
I want to double down on what I wrote in that essay. If you want to avoid repetition, you can stop reading now (although you’ll miss out on a couple of interesting graphs).
Whatever we call it, the reality is that increasingly powerful AI systems that can do many of the things we do today are coming our way. Perhaps, like this filmmaker [ https://substack.com/redirect/683e028b-c620-4b56-8c3b-db519fabfd05?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ], you are even using them.
Surveys and predictions of when we might “achieve AGI” are getting increasingly compressed. The release of GPT-3 four years ago, in particular, shifted estimates from 40 years to a decade or less. An OpenAI researcher says that o3, previewed just before Christmas,  [ https://substack.com/redirect/a42b2ded-25c1-4ae6-ad00-a510401bbb97?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]is [ https://substack.com/redirect/a42b2ded-25c1-4ae6-ad00-a510401bbb97?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ] AGI [ https://substack.com/redirect/a42b2ded-25c1-4ae6-ad00-a510401bbb97?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ].
To sceptics
Lots of people simply don’t believe it. Perhaps you are rolling your eyes reading these words and don’t believe it either.
Sure, Sam Altman’s pronouncements can be weird. But we need to look past those.
I’ve had conversations with several people at the frontier labs in situations where they have little reason to not speak frankly. They tell me similar things: that they have figured it out and just need to build it. Of course, what the it is, is a bit contentious partly because the term AGI is so contested.
What isn’t contested is that a techno-capitalist flywheel is spinning faster and faster. Microsoft, for instance, is increasing its spend in computing infrastructure, targeting $80 billion in capital expenditures. They are building out for something. It is possible that they (and the other hyperscalers) are overbuilding—and this wouldn’t be the first time a general-purpose technology has led to overcapacity, which in turn could lead to a bust.
But they are building for a reason… What could that reason be? Likely improving AI at lower cost leading to greater and greater demand.
I don’t think AI a simple journey with a clear end state, like landing on the moon. It’s why I struggle with the term AGI. But improving AI, like any technology, is something, a process.
And what is increasingly clear is that the flywheel has just started to spin. And when insiders signal, it might be sensible to pay heed.
My 2025 Horizon Scan – community briefing in January
I’m hosting a community briefing about my 2025 Horizon Scan in January open to all paying members of Exponential View. This is an opportunity to explore key opportunities and risks in the year ahead and engage in thoughtful discussions with me and other members of our community.
8 January, 4pm UK / 11am NY REGISTER HERE [ https://substack.com/redirect/b9974b20-3106-4412-98f8-3cb31e84a7fa?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]
or
9 January, 11am UK / 3pm Dubai REGISTER HERE [ https://substack.com/redirect/a403eff1-f95a-4112-aad8-805e09f025a3?j=eyJ1IjoicXd0ciJ9.0tEpqnOrcfuKYRYnEOurmlOZ_pVIUnS06konjQA-bCs ]
