# Inside Claude Code From the Engineers Who Built It

- **Channel:** EveryInc
- **Video ID:** IDSAMqip6ms
- **Upload Date:** 2025-10-29
- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IDSAMqip6ms

## Summary

Claude Code revolutionizes coding workflows by providing an AI agent directly in the terminal with full access to bash and system tools, enabling developers to solve problems by leveraging an intelligent, flexible coding companion that can understand and execute complex tasks. The team's philosophy of building tools that are "dual use" for both humans and AI, constantly iterating based on internal usage, and focusing on solving their own problems first has led to a powerful, extensible coding assistant that can handle everything from code migrations to sub-agent coordination.

## Transcript

What made it work really well is that quad code has access to everything that an engineer does at the terminal. Everything you can do, quad code can do. There's nothing in between. >> There's actually an increasing number of people internally at anthropic that are using like a lot of credits like spending like over a,000 bucks every month. We see this like power user behavior. This is something that they teach in YC. If you can solve your own problem, it's much more likely you're solving the problem for others. There's this like really old idea in product called latent demand. You build a product in a way that is hackable that is kind of open-ended enough that people can abuse it for other use cases it wasn't really designed for and you build for that cuz you kind of know there's demand for it. Do you think the CLI is the final form factor? Are we going to using cloud code in the CLI primarily in a year or in 3 years or is there something else that's better [Music] This podcast is sponsored by Google. Hey folks, I'm Omar, product and design lead at Google DeepMind. We just launched a revamped vibe coding experience in AI Studio that lets you mix and match AI capabilities to turn your ideas into reality faster than ever. Just describe your app and Gemini will automatically wire up the right models and APIs for you. And if you need a spark, hit I'm feeling lucky and we'll help you get started. Head to a.studio/bild. studio/build to create your first app. >> Cat Boris, thank you so much for being here. >> Thanks for having us. >> Yeah. Um, so for people who don't know you, you are the creators of Claude Code. Thank you very much from the bottom of my heart. It's uh I love Cloud Code. >> That's amazing to hear. That's what we love to hear. Um I Okay, I think the place I want to start is when I first used it. Um, there was like this moment like I think it was around when uh Sonnet 37 came out where I was like I used it and I was like, "Holy this is like a completely new paradigm. It's a a completely new way of thinking about code." And the the big difference was um you went all the way and just eliminated the text editor and you're just like all you do is like talk to the talk to the terminal and and that's that's it. Um, and you know, previous paradigms of AI programming, pre previous harnesses have been like you have a text editor and you have the AI on the side and it's kind of like or it's a tab complete. So, take me through like that decision process that ar that that process of of architecting this new paradigm. How do you how did you think about that? >> Yeah, I think the the most important thing is it was not intentional at all. Okay. >> Uh, we we sort of ended up with it. So at the time when I joined Enthropic um we were still on different teams at the time. Um there was this previous predecessor to quad code. It was called Clyde like CL C cliop. And it was this like research project you know it took like a minute to start up. It was this kind of like really heavy Python thing. It had to like run a bunch of indexing and stuff. And when I joined I wanted to ship my first PR and I hand wrote it like a you know like a noob in a in a like I didn't know about any of these tools. >> Thank you for admitting that. U I didn't know any better and then I I put up this PR and um Adam Wolf who was the um manager for our team for a while. He was my ramp up buddy and he just like rejected the PR and he was like you wrote this by hand. What are you what are you doing? Use Quide. Um cuz he was also hacking a lot on Quiet at the time. And so I tried Quaid. I gave it the description of the task and it just like one shot at this thing >> and this was like you know sonnet 35. So I still had to fix a thing even for this kind of basic task and the harness was super old. So it took like 5 minutes to turn this thing out and just took forever and um but it but it worked and I was just mind-blown that this this was even possible and they just kind of got the gears turning. maybe you don't actually need an IDE. >> And then later on I was prototyping using the anthropic API and the easiest way to do that was just building a little app in the terminal cuz that way I didn't have to build a UI or anything. And I started just making a little chat app and then I just started thinking maybe we could do something a little bit like Clyde. So let let me build like a little Clyde and it actually ended up being a lot more useful than that without a lot of work. And I think the biggest revelation for me was when we started to give the model tools. It just started using tools and it was just it was this insane moment. Like the model just wants to use tools. Like we gave it bash and it just started using bash writing apple script to like automate stuff uh in response to questions. And I was like this is just the craziest thing. I've never seen anything like this. Cuz at the time I had only used IDE with like you know like text editing a little like oneline autocomplete, multi-line autocomplete, whatever. Um, so that that's where this came from. It was this kind of convergence of like prototyping but also kind of seeing what's possible in kind of like a very um rough way. >> Um, and this thing ended up being surprisingly useful and and I think it was the same for us. I think for me it was like kind of sonnet 4 opus 4. That's where that magic moment was. I was like, "Oh my god, this this thing works." >> That's interesting. So like tell me about that that the tool moment because I think that is one of the special things about cloud code is it just writes bash and it's really good at it. And I think a lot of um previous agent architectures or even anyone building agent today, your first instinct might be okay, we're going to give it a find file tool and then we're going to give it a uh open file tool and you you build all these like custom wrappers for you know uh all the different actions you might want the agent to take, but Cloud Code just uses bash and it's like really good at it. So how do you think about um how do you think about what you learned from that? Yeah, I think we're at this point right now where Quad Code actually has a bunch of tools. I think it's like a dozen or something like this. We we actually like add and remove tools most weeks. So, this changes pretty often. Um, but today there actually is a search uh there's a tool for for searching. Um, and we do this for two reasons. One is the UX, so we can show the result a little bit nicer to the user because there's still a human in the loop right now for most tasks. Uh, and the second one is for permissions. So, if you say in your like cloud code like settings.json JSON on this file you cannot read. We we have to kind of enforce this. Uh we enforce it for bash but we can do it a little bit more efficiently for if we have a specific search tool. Um but definitely we want to like unhip tools and kind of keep it simple for the model. Um like last week or two weeks ago we unchipped the OS tool because in the past we needed it but then we actually built a way to enforce this kind of permission system for bash. Um, so in Bash, if we know that you're not allowed to read a particular directory, Quad's not allowed to OS that directory. And because we can enforce that consistently, we don't need this tool anymore. Um, and this is nice because it's a it's a little less choice for Quad. A little less stuff in context. >> Got it. And how do you guys split responsibility on the team? >> Um, I would say Boris sets the technical direction and has been the product visionary for a lot of the features that we've come out with. I see myself as more of like a supporting role to make sure that um that one that like our pricing and packaging resonates with our users. Um two making sure that we're shephering all our features across the launch process. So from like deciding all right like these are the prototypes that we should definitely ant food to like setting the quality threshold for ant fooding through to communicating that to our end users. And um there's definitely some new initiatives that we're working on that uh I would say historically a lot of quad code has been built bottoms up like Boris and a lot of the core team members have just had these great ideas for to-do list sub agents hooks like all these are bottoms up. As we think about expanding to more services and bring cloud code to our places, I think a lot of those are more like, all right, let's talk to customers. Let's bring engineers into those conversations and prioritize those services and knock them out. >> Got it. What is ant fooding? >> Oh, ant fooding is >> Oh, ant fooding. >> Oh, um it it means dog fooding. So, >> anthropic ant. I got it. >> Yeah. Our nickname for um internal employees is ant. And so uh ant fooding is our version of dog fooding. Uh internally over I think 70 or 80% of ants uh technical anthropic employees use cloud code every day. And so every time we are thinking about a new feature, we push it out to people internally and we get so much feedback. We have a feedback channel. I think we get a post every five minutes. And so you get really quick signal on whether people like it, whether it's buggy, um or whether uh it's not good and we should unchip it. >> You can tell um you can tell that someone that is building stuff is using it all the time to build it. Uh because the the like its ergonomics just makes sense if you're trying to build stuff and that that only happens if you're like ant ant fooding. Um I Yeah. Yeah. And I I think that that's a really interesting paradigm for building new stuff like that sort of bottoms up I make something for myself. Um tell me about that. >> Yeah. And C cat is also so humble. Um I think cat has a really big role in the product direction also like it comes from everyone on the team and like these specific examples this actually came from everyone on the team like to-do lists and sub aents that was Sid Hooks Dixon shipped that plugins Daisy shipped that. >> So like everyone on the team like these ideas come from everyone. Um, and so I think for us like we build this core agent loop and this kind of core experience and then everyone on the team uses the product all the time. Uh, and so everyone outside the team uses the product all the time. And so there's just all these chances to build things that serve these needs. Like for example, like bash mode, you know, like the exclamation mark and you can type in bash commands. This was just like many months ago. I was using quad code and I I was going back and forth between two terminals and just thought it was kind of annoying. Uh, and just on a whim, my asked squad to kind of think of ideas, the thought of this like exclamation mark bash mode. And then I was like, great, make it pink and then ship it. It just did it. And like that that's the thing that still kind of persisted. And you know, now you see kind of others also kind of catching on to that. >> That's funny. I actually didn't know that. And that's extremely useful because I always have to open up a new tab to like run any bash commands. So you just you just do an exclamation point and then it just like runs it directly instead of filtering it through all all the cloud stuff. >> Yeah. And quad code sees the full output too. >> Interesting. That's perfect. >> So anything you see in the cloud code view, cloud code also sees. >> Okay, that's really interesting. >> And this is kind of a UX thing that we're thinking about. Like in the past tools were built for engineers, but now it's equal parts engineers and model. >> And so like as an engineer, you can see the output, but it's actually quite useful for the model also. And this is part of the philosophy also like everything is dual use. Um so for example, the model can also call slash commands. So like you know I have a slash command for slashcomit where I run through kind of a few different steps like diffing and generating a reasonable commit message and and this kind of stuff. I run it manually but also Claude can run this for me. Uh and this is pretty useful because we get to share this logic. We get to kind of define this tool and then we we both get to use >> Yeah. What are the differences in uh designing tools that are dual use from designing tools that are you know used by one or the other? Surprisingly, it's the same. >> Okay. >> So far. >> Yeah. I I I sort of feel like this kind of elegant design for humans translates really well to the models. >> So, you're just thinking about what would make sense to you and the model generally, it makes sense to the model, too, if it makes sense to you. >> Yeah. I think one of the really cool things about Cloud Code being um a terminal UI and what made it work really well is that Cloud Code has access to everything that an engineer does at the terminal. And I think when it comes to whether the tool should be dual use or not, I think making them dual use actually makes the tools a lot easier to understand. It just means that okay, everything you can do, cloud code can do. There's nothing in between. >> Yeah, that's interesting. Yeah, there there are a couple of those decisions. So, um no no code editor, it's in the terminal, so it has access to your files. Um, and it's it's on your computer versus like in the cloud in a virtual machine. So you get like repeated you you get to use it in a repeated way where you can like you know build up your cloud MD file or you know like all all like build slash commands and all that kind of stuff where it becomes very composable um and extensible from a very simple starting point. And I'm curious about how you think about, you know, for for people who are thinking about, okay, I want to build an agent, I want to build probably not cloud code, but like something else, how you get that that simple package that then can extend and be really powerful over time. >> For me, I I start by just thinking about it like developing any kind of product where you have to solve the problem for yourself before you can solve it for others. And like this is something that they teach in YC is you have to start with yourself. So like if you if you can solve your own problem, it's much more likely you're solving the problem for others. And I I think for coding starting locally is the reasonable thing and you know now we have cloud code on the web. So you can also use it with a virtual machine and um you know you can use it in a remote setting and this is super useful when you're on the go you want to take that from your phone >> and and this is sort of we we started proving this out kind of a step bat a time >> where you can do atcloud in GitHub and uh I use this every day like on the way to work I'm like at a red light I probably shouldn't be doing this but I'm like you know on GitHub at a red light and then I'm like at claude you know fix this issue or whatever and so it's it's just real useful to be able to control it from your phone um and this kind proves out this experience. I I don't know if this necessarily makes sense for every kind of use case. For coding, I think starting local is right. Um I don't know if this is true for everything, though. >> Got it. What are the slash commands you guys use? >> Slashprit. >> Yeah. >> Um yeah, it it's I I think the pritcomand makes it a lot faster for claw to know exactly what bash commands to run in order to make a commit. >> And what does the prit slash command do for people who are unfamiliar? Oh, it it just tells it like exactly how to make a commit. Okay. >> Um and you can like dynam you can say like, okay, these are the three bash commands that need to be run. >> Got it. And and what's pretty cool is also we have um this kind of templating system built into slash commands. So we actually run the bash commands ahead of time. They're like embedded into the slash command. Um and you can also pre-allow certain tool invocations. So for that slash command we say allow um you know get commit get push gh and so you don't get asked for permission after you run the slash command because we have like a permission uh based security system. Um and then also it uses haik coup which is pretty cool. Um so it's kind of a cheaper model and faster. Um yeah and for me I I use like commit uh commit PR uh feature dev we use a lot. So like sid created this one. It's kind of cool. So it kind of like walks you through step by step um building something. So we prompt quad to like first ask me how to what exactly I want like build the specification >> and then um you know kind of like build like a detailed plan and then make a to-do list walk through step by step. So it's kind of like more structured feature development >> and then I think the last one that we probably use a lot so we use like security review for all of our PRs and then also code review. Um so like quad does all of our code review internally at anthropic. Um, you know, there's still a human approving it, but quad does kind of the first step in code review. That's just a slashcode review command. >> Got it. Yeah. What are the things I would love to go deeper into like the how do you make a good plan? So, the sort of the feature dev thing because I think there's a lot of like little tricks that um I'm starting to find or people at every start starting to find that work and I'm curious like what what are things that that we're missing. So for example, one um step in the one unintuitive step of the of the you know plan development process is even if I don't exactly know what the thing that needs to be built is I just have like a little sentence in my mind like I want feature X I have Claude just like implement it just without giving it anything else and I see what it does and that helps me understand like okay here's actually what I mean because it made all these different mistakes or like it it did something that I didn't expect that might be And then I use that like the learning from the sort of throwaway development. I just clear it out. And then that helps me write a better plan spec for the actual feature development, which is something that you would never do before because it'd be too expensive to just like yolo send an engineer on a feature that you hadn't actually speced out. But because you have cloud going through your codebase and doing stuff, you can like learn stuff from it. Um that helps inform the actual plan that you make. >> Yeah. I feel maybe I I can start and I'm curious how you use it too. >> I think there's like a few different modes maybe for me like one one is prototyping mode. >> So like traditional engineering prototyping you want to kind of build the simplest possible thing that touches all the systems just so you can kind of get a vague sense of like what are the systems there's unknowns and just to kind of trace through everything. >> Um and so I I do the exact same thing as you Dan like Claude just does the thing and then I see where it messes up and then I'll ask it to just throw it away and do it again. So just hit escape twice, go back to the old checkpoint and then try again. I think there's also maybe two other kinds of tasks. So one is just things that quad can one-shot and I feel pretty confident it can do it. So I'll just tell it and then I'll just go to a different tab and I'll I'll shift tap to auto accept and then just go do something else or go to another one of my quads and tend to that while it does this. >> Um but also there's this kind of like harder feature development. So these are you know things are maybe in the past it would have taken like a few hours of engineering time and for this usually I would I'll shift tap into plan mode and then align on the plan first before it even writes any code. Um and and I think what's really hard about this is the boundary changes with every model and it in kind of a surprising way where the newer models they're more intelligent so the boundary of what you need plan mode for got pushed out like a little bit >> like before you used to need to plan now now you don't. And I think it's this general trend of like stuff that used to be scaffolding with a more advanced model, it gets pushed into the model itself and the model kind of tends to subsume everything over time. Yeah. How do you think about like building a agent harness that isn't just going to like you're you're not spending a bunch of time um building stuff that is just going to be subsumed into the model in 3 months when the new cloud comes out? like, yeah, how do you how do you know what to build versus what to just say it doesn't work quite yet, but next time it's going to work, so we're not going to spend time on it. >> I think we build most things that we think would improve Cloud Code's capabilities, even if that means we'll have to get rid of it in 3 months. If anything, we hope that we will get rid of it in three months. >> I think for now, we just want to offer the most premium experience possible and so we're not too worried about throwaway work. H >> interesting. Yeah. And an example of this is something like even like plan mode itself. I think we'll probably un ship it at some point when Quad can just figure out from your intent that you probably want to plan first. Um or you know, for example, I just deleted like 2,000 tokens or something from the system prompt yesterday just cuz like Sonnet 45 doesn't need it anymore. Um but Opus Opus 41 did need it. What about um you know in the case where uh the the latest frontier you know model doesn't need it but you know you're trying to figure out how to make it more efficient because you have so many users that you know you're maybe you you're not going to use Opus or Sonnet 45 for everything. Maybe you're going to use Haiku. So there's a trade-off between having a more um elaborate harness for Haiku versus just like not spending time on it using Sonnet eating the cost and working on more Frontier type stuff. In general, we've positioned Quad Code to be a very premium offering. So, our north star is making sure that it works incredibly well with the absolutely most powerful model we have, which is Sonnet 45 right now. >> Um, we are investigating how to make it work really well for like future generations of smaller models, but it's um it's not the top priority for us. >> Okay. What do you think about um you know one thing that I notice is we get models um often and thank you very much for this. We get models a lot before they come out and it's our job to kind of figure out is it any good and over the last six months when I'm testing claude for example in the claude app with a new frontier model it's actually very hard to tell whether it's how whether it's better immediately. Um, but it's really easy to tell in cloud code because the the harness matters a lot for the performance that you get out of the model. And you guys have the benefit of building cla or building cloud code inside of the um inside of enthropic. So there's like a much tighter integration between um the fundamental like model training and the harness that you're building and and they seem to kind of like really impact each other. So how does that how does that work internally and and um what are the benefits you get from having that like tight integration? >> Yeah, I think the biggest thing is like researchers just use this and so you know as they see what's working, what's not, they can they can improve stuff. Um we do like a lot of eval to kind of communicate back and forth and understand where exactly the model's at. Um, but yeah, there's this frontier where you need to give the model a hard enough task to really push the limit of the model. And if you don't do this, then all models are kind of equal. But if you give it a pretty hard task, you can you can tell the difference. >> What sub aents do you use? >> Um, I I have a few. I have like a planner sub agent that I use. I have a code review sub aent. Code review is actually something where sometimes I use a sub agent, sometimes I use a slash command. So usually in CI to slash command, but in synchronous use I use a sub aent for the same thing. Um >> um it's a good question. Yeah, maybe it's like a matter of taste. Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. Um I think it's maybe when you're running synchronously, it's kind of nice to fork off the the context window a little bit because all the stuff that's going on in the code review, it's not relevant to what I'm doing next. But in CI, it just doesn't matter. >> Are you ever spawning like 10 sub agents at once? And for what? >> For me, I do it mostly for like big migrations. Okay, >> this like the big thing. Um, actually we have so this like coder slash command that we use there's a bunch of sub aents there and so one of the steps is like find all the issues and so there's one sub agent that's like checking for quadmd compliance. There's another sub agent that's looking through git history to see what's going on. Another sub aent that's looking for kind of obvious bugs and then we do this like kind of dduping quality step after. So they find a bunch of stuff. A lot of these are false positives and so then then we spawn like five more sub aents and these are all just like checking for false positives. And in the end, the result is awesome. It finds like all the real issues without the false issues. >> That's great. I actually do that. Um, so one of my non-technical cloud code use cases is um expense filing. So like when I'm I'm in SF right now, so like I have all these expenses. And so I built this little cloud project that uh in in cloud code that um it uses uh one of these, you know, finance APIs to just download all my credit card transactions. And then it uh decides like these are probably the expenses that I'm going to have to like file. And then I have two sub agents, one that represents me and one that represents the company. And they like do battle to like figure out like what's the proper um like actual set of expenses. uh it's like an auditor sub agent and like you know pro Dan sub agent. So um yeah that kind of thing the the sort of like opponent processor uh pattern seems to be like an interesting one. >> Yeah. Yeah. It's it's it's it's cool. I I feel like when sub aents were first becoming a thing actually what inspired us there's like a Reddit thread a while back where someone made sub agents for like there was like a front end dev and a backend dev and like a think it was like a designer >> testing dev >> testing dev like there was like a PM sub agent and this is like you know it's cute like it feels like a little maybe too anthropomorphic um maybe maybe there's something to this but I I think like the value is actually like the uncorrelated context windows where you have like these two context windows that don't know about each other and this is kind of interesting um and you tend to get better results this way. What about you? Do you have any interesting sub agents you use? >> So, I've been tinkering with one um that is really good at front-end testing. So, it uses Playright to like see all right, what are like all the errors that are client side and pull them in and try to test more steps of the app. Um, it's not totally there yet, but I'm seeing signs of life and I think it's the kind of thing that we could potentially um, bundle in one of our plugins marketplaces. >> Yeah. Um, definitely. I I' I've used something like that just with Puppeteer and just like watching it build something and then open up the browser and then be like, "Oh, I need to change this." It's like this is like, "Oh my god." >> Yeah. It's really cool. >> It's really cool. I think I think we're starting to see the beginnings of this like massive like multi- massive sub aents. I I don't know what they call this like swarms or something like that. There's a bunch of people there's actually an increasing number of people internally at anthropic that are using like a lot of credits every month like you know like spending like over a thousand bucks every month. Um and this like this percent of people is growing actually pretty fast. And I think the common use case is like code migration. And so what they're doing is like framework A to framework B. uh there's like the main agent, it makes a big to-do list for everything and then just kind of map produce over a bunch of sub agents. So you instruct quad like yeah like start 10 agents and then just go like you know 10 at a time and just migrate all all the stuff over. >> That's interesting. What would be like a concrete example of the kind of migration that you're talking about? >> I think the most classic is like lint rules. >> So there's like you know there's some kind of lint rule you're rolling out. There's no autofixer because it's like you know like as an analysis can't really it's kind of too simplistic for it. Um I think other stuff is like framework migrations like um we just migrated from like one testing framework to a different one. That's a pretty common one where it's super easy to verify the output. >> One of the things I found is and this is both for project projects inside of every and then just open source projects. It's like if you're someone building a product and you want to build a feature that's um been done before. So maybe like an an example that people might need to implement a bunch is like memory. How do you d
