# GPT-5.2 Can't Identify a Serial Killer & Was The Year of Agents A Lie? EP99.28-5.2

- **Channel:** https://www.youtube.com/@ThisDayinAI
- **Video ID:** 9U2LoJlXiCU
- **Upload Date:** 2025-12-12
- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9U2LoJlXiCU

## Transcript

So Chris, this week we continue to learn that if you have to hype your own model, maybe it's not as good as the benchmarks say. Of course, I'm talking about GPT 5.2, not to be confused with GPT 5.1 or GPT5 or GPT5 thinking or GPT5.1 thinking or GPT5.1 Pro or GPT5.2-Pro 2 - because we haven't had a chance to test that out. So anyway, GPT 5.2 is out uh today. What a shock code red has paid off. A couple of weeks later, we've got a newly tuned version of GPT5. It has a 400K context window. So the same as GPT5.1 and GPT5, 128K uh output, which is very large and and and great. uh GPT uh 5 of course was $1.50 per million uh input tokens. They've risen the price by 25 uh for GPT 5.2 to $1.75 per million. So a little bit pricier. They've also said that they've improved it at vision tool calling. Um and you know generally it's more smarter across industries. You've used it now for a couple of hours. What are your initial impressions of GPT5.2? >> Yeah, it's not very good, is it? Like I I straight away got that I was like, "Hello." Like when I was testing it and it's like putting, you know, detailed replies. It was like a page of reply to me just saying hello, going through every single memory it's got and like listing them and things like that. It's verbose. I tried it with create with code and it did do a good job, but it's just a lot of output. It's like it's just enthusiastically outputting immediately. >> My feeling with this model is they've obviously felt really threatened by Gemini 3 and they've gone back to the tuning board and they've tuned it with more sort of verbose output but also with output that just has the vibes. Like it's really like vibe tuning to benchmarks and vibe tuning to code similar to what Gemini 3 Pro did. I mean I think they did the exact same thing and openai have said okay you guys want this like we can go down that that viby path and I think that's pretty well illustrated by some of the examples they give in this this release.

The biggest observation I have here is Enthropic weren't on the sort of like thinking bandwagon early on, right? Um, I know someone corrected me a couple of weeks ago saying, "Oh, they came up with the ant thinking tag first or something." And sure, but ultimately their models perform just as good without the the thinking BS, right? They just work. Um, and they seem to have an internal clock and they're very agentic in their operation. Now, for whatever reason, I think XAI with Grock 4.1 and OpenAI and Gemini all lent into that thinking very hard to get the intelligence outputs in the models. And it feels with tool calling like because they were trained that way. That's why you get that verbose like I will call 10 million tools now I will give you output. Whereas Anthropics models for those that are not familiar with all the different models, they feel very different when you use it. It'll say, I will now go and call these three sources. Okay, I I want a bit more information. So, I will now call these four other sources. So, it's still asynchronous tool calling, but it appears to at least be like thinking and working as it goes and working with you, whereas the other models, I think, are aggressively trying to oneshot everything.

Yeah. It's almost as though they're optimized to try to do everything in a single request. And I think that's the big difference because what you're experiencing there with the Claude models is actually our system finishing a request and then Anthropic saying, "Okay, I'd like another go at this, like another iteration." And then we honor that and it goes forward. So it's almost like as you say it has this internal clock idea where it's able to anticipate that there will be future rounds and opportunities to correct its thinking.

## Year of Agents Discussion

I really want to go in a minute a bit deeper into the year of agents thing. I just I can't help but reflect on it. So there's a bit of a marketing shift happening in the AI space, and I think we're going to see a lot more of this next year. So under GBT 5.2 it says the best model for coding and agentic tasks across industries. Now this is the first time we've heard agentic tasks across industries and it reminds me of a strategy from another company called Anthropic.

I think there's two emerging themes here. First of all, the the the labs and the market in general has done a terrible job at getting even just basic AI into the enterprise. Uh so it's just been overpromise, underd deliver on that front. But then they're also starting to pivot heavily into the enterprise with their models because they're seeing anthropics growth in the market is just like obviously just eating their lunch.

We were promised at the start of the year by many people that you would have, you know, a series of agents working for you in the background, uh, doing all your tasks and collaborating with you. Um, how did we how did we go?

Yeah, I just don't think it exists. And in fact, I think it's even worse than that because I actually think the state of tool calling isn't even as good as it could be. we're seeing like in all the major platforms, it's really not a reliable experience for anyone. The MCPs themselves are unreliable. The ability to chain large amounts of tool calls together isn't really perfect. And when you start to put things in an agentic loop, yes, you can get there now. But to get it into a true agency where it can recover from dodgy situations, support human in the loop, support context updates, and be able to maintain its focus on the goals over a long period of time with memory and and output things correctly. I haven't seen a single example where I look at it and I'm like, wo, that is the the way to do it.

I think a lot of that came down to all the the profits earlier in the year saying, you know, year of agents, it's going to be magical. It's going to change everything. And I think they're sort of partially true. like we have seen huge gains with like curses agent claude code uh codeex like a number of these solutions that predominantly are adopted by developers and so I think there's like two cohorts there's the developer cohort that's like yeah agents have had a big impact this year like being able to send it off to do monotonous tasks that then I can just review is far easier. But then on the other side if you're a white collar worker and you're doing other things than coding there's really been no impact I would say to you with agents at all.

I just know like when you see someone for the first time work with the technology with their own data through an MCP and then go through mentally like thinking out loud. I can now do all of these tasks in no time that used to take me a week. Like every time I see that reaction from someone I'm like why would anyone ever go back? Like once they reach that point of realized to call it an aha moment like you know once people get to that stage of thinking they're not going back from that.

My one observation this year is like we're still early. I think even our own predictions and my own predictions like knowing where the technology is, it still just takes time to get there, right? Like even though it's possible like I actually really genuinely believe the agentic workflows we've described are now possible, you know, just with us it's taking time to get there because there's just a lot of things you need to equip it with.

To me it feels like a 10-year transition. Like sure, the models are getting better, but you you're just not going to move mountains internally at at in in businesses and just your day-to-day life that quickly.
